<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: global private equity fund carlyle growth today announced it has bought a controlling stake in visionary revenue cycle management  a provider of healthcare solutions for an undisclosed amount. et was the first to report the proposed transaction on november 6. according to sources  the company is being valued at around $65 million (rs 420 crore) and carlyle has bought stake from the promoters as well as the early venture capital investors in the company. chennai-based vrcm had raised rs 15 crore from venture capital firm indous venture partners in 2010. founded in 2006 by rajesh surana  vrcm specialises in healthcare revenue cycle management and medical coding services. the company has three offshore delivery locations and wholly owned subsidiaries in florida and california. “vrcm is a company with an experienced management team  a track record of high quality  consistent services and strong client relationships. as the medical coding and rcm services market continues to grow  we believe vrcm is well-positioned to capitalize on future market opportunities " said shankar narayanan  co-head of carlyle asia growth partners in the release. vrcm has over 250 healthcare clients served by more than 1 000 employees who help out in risk adjustment programmes  audit and quality of care for medicare  medicaid and commercial health plans. the unlisted company’s revenue was about $25 million and operating profit was $14 million. the us private equity fund will pay 4.5 times the company’s operating profit. carlyle may look at merging vrcm with another business process outsourcing company that it owns  allsec technologies  to build scale and later exit. "carlyle has deep industry expertise and an extensive network in the global healthcare and technology industry  including in the u.s. we believe vrcm will strongly benefit from the partnership with carlyle as we continue to expand our service offerings  develop our business and explore expansion opportunities ” said rajesh p. surana  ceo and founder of visionary rcm. surana will retain some stake in the company and will continue to manage the business. for carlyle  india is one of its key markets for growth and buyout investments. the group has invested more than us$1.5 billion of equity in more than 30 transactions in india as of september 30  2017. some of its investments in the country include allsec technologies  cyient  dee development engineers  edelweiss financial  gol offshore  newgen knowledge works  south indian bank  vbhc value homes and visen industries. the buyout fund is currently invested in companies such as delhivery logistics  global healthcare  metropolis healthcare and pnb housing finance. </div></div>