<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: china’s fosun group has agreed to tweak its buyout deal with the promoters of hyderabad based gland pharma and acquire 74 per cent of the company for $1.1 billion  according to a securities filing sunday evening  potentially resurrecting a transaction that had been on hold for over a year due to regulatory hurdles.  last july  shanghai fosun pharmaceuticals group co. had agreed to buy 86 per cent of the generic injectables firm from its shareholders  including us private equity giant kkr as well as promoters ravi penmetsa and his father pvn raju  for $1.3 billion — the largest-ever chinese bid for an indian company. but amid rising concern of a foreign takeover of a producer of export-quality medicines  the proposal was not taken up by the cabinet committee of economic affairs and was subsequently put in cold storage during the dokalam tensions between india and china.  but ending months of speculation  fosun informed exchanges that a new deal construct had been approved. last year  the government relaxed the foreign investment rules  allowing global companies to acquire up to 74 per cent in local drug makers without government approval.  deal-closure date delayed to oct 3 “given gland pharma’s operation is in good condition  the founder shareholders propose to maintain a higher stake in gland pharma without impact on the acquisition of the controlling interest in gland pharma by fosun pharma group  as well as expect to establish a closer cooperation with fosun pharma group to jointly promote the sustainable and stable development of gland pharma ” fosun said.  the new structure is aimed at getting faster regulatory approvals  pharma analysts said. with fosun trimming down the deal size  the transaction is expected to get automatic clearance  said a source with direct knowledge of the process.  “the automatic route gives a certainty for the buyer instead of waiting for the caveats that the government might introduce ” said hitesh sharma  partner and national head- lifesciences  at consulting firm ey.  “with an increase in the shareholding from the earlier contemplated sale  dr ravi penmetsa and his father pvn raju will continue on the board of the company and the present management team will be in charge of the day-to-day running of the company ” gland pharma said in a statement.    “furthermore  the partnership will create new channels to sell the products of gland pharma in markets where fosun has an existing presence.”  the firm has also delayed the closing date for the deal to october 3 from september 26.  put option under the new terms  the founder shareholders will have the right to exercise a put option within one year of the expiration of the share purchase agreement (spa) closing date to sell their residual stake for a consideration up to $355 million.  fosun pharma said it would spend no more than $25 million for the indian firm’s enoxaparin prototype sales in the us  when it gets approval there  cutting the previously proposed amount by half.  gland will also have a new board of nine members with fosun having the right to appoint a majority of them.  “at the date of this announcement  the approvals of the relevant prc (people’s republic of china) authorities in respect of the acquisition have been obtained  and the united states antitrust filings and indian antitrust filings ” fosun said in the stock exchange notification on sunday.  founded in 1978  gland pharma develops niche injectable drugs and supplies them to a customers such as dr. reddy's and mylan. in the us alone gland supplies 65 products and around 150 in other emerging markets.  kkr had invested $200 million in 2013 to buy a 36 per cent stake in the company from private equity fund evolvence india life sciences. </div></div>