<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: beleaguered axis bank secured a lifeline after a bain capital-led consortium agreed to invest $1.8 billion in the country’s largest private equity transaction to help shore up the lender’s capital base after a string of disappointing earnings.axis said on friday it would raise.rs 11 626 crore in a share and warrants sale to bain capital  capital international and its biggest shareholder life insurance corp. bain and capital’s contribution alone would be $1.6 billion while lic would invest $200 million.the transaction  if and when concluded  would improve the bank’s capital adequacy ratio to 18.66 per cent from 16.32%. it would also be the largest pe transaction in india since the liberalisation in 1991.et was the first to report about bain’s likely investment in axis in its edition dated october 31. on friday  axis shares closed up 0.72 per cent at .rs 544.50 as against a 0.19 per cent gain in the sensex. the shares have surged 12.43 per cent since the et report was published.the bank said it would sell over 17 crore shares at .rs 525 apiece — a discount of 3.5 per cent to friday’s closing price. the warrants would be issued at .rs 565 each. the fund-raising would entail a dilution of 8.23 per cent for existing shareholders and bain would earn one seat on the axis board.it was not immediately clear whether any of the capital would be used for growth. the bank has already made a lot of provisions and is gearing up to provide more as additional cases may be referred to bankruptcy courts in the coming months. “this capital will largely go towards meeting ifrs requirements and provisioning needs for stressed assets ” said suresh ganapathy  banking analyst  macquarie capital securities. “in our estimate  the provisioning requirement for axis bank is roughly.rs 11 000-12 000 crore. so  clearly this is not growth capital.” the bank has split the fund-raising into two parts: a direct equity sale to bain capital and lic amounting to rs 9 063 crore; issue of warrants worth rs 2 563 crore that give the owners option to convert into equity at a future date.the fund-raising would help the bank provide adequately for bad loans that rose to 5.90 per cent of total advances in the september quarter. “we are honoured by the faith reposed by marquee investors including bain capital and our promoters lic in the long-term strategy of the bank ” said shikha sharma  chief executive of axis bank. “we are excited about the opportunities this growth capital creates for us.” cofounded by mitt romney  the 2012 us presidential candidate for the republicans  the boston  massachusetts-based bain capital has been a leading investor in the banking and financial sector.earlier  in july  bain  which manages $75 billion globally  acquired nearly 1billion euro worth of toxic debt assets from portuguese and spanish banks.“in india’s banking industry  we believe reach  scale and analytics-driven underwriting will become increasingly important ” said stephen pagliuca  co-chairman at bain capital. “we are particularly excited about axis bank’s strong and differentiated retail franchise that we believe will be an important driver of future growth.”banking and financial services has been one of the key sectors that bulge-bracket pe funds have targeted in india. the sector has seen $2.5 billion of deals so far this year  nearly 10 per cent of the $21.25 billion invested across sectors in india during the first nine months of this year  according to data compiled by news corp vccedge  an industry tracker.during the september quarter  three out of the top four pe deals were in financial services companies.“this (investment from bain-led consortium in axis) could be a precursor to many more — some larger  some smaller — transactions in the indian banking space ” said sanjeev krishan  leader  private equity  pwc india. “in some ways  the deal is the commencement of a journey of larger pe funds looking at stressed assets in india. the structure of banks (like axis) is huge and complex and patient long-term capital from a fund like bain will help rewrite global perception about the indian banking space.”“bain capital has been and continues to be bullish on india and is excited that the reforms in recent years augur well for the next stage of economic growth. having made some of the largest private equity commitments to the country  this one is yet another signal of the same ” said amit chandra  managing director and head of indian operations at bain capital.</div></div>