<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: kkr & co. has agreed to sell a controlling stake in the us headquartered  india-focused aricent to france’s altran technologies for a total enterprise value of $2 billion in an all-cash transaction  marking its exit from its oldest investment in india. the deal  which got announced in paris earlier on thursday  is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018  aricent and altran said in a joint statement. following the transaction  the combined entity will become a global leader in er&d; services  a market expected to be worth euro 220 billion by 2020  the statement said. et had reported in its november 15 edition that kkr had initiated a formal process to sell aricent and has reached out to potential strategic and financial buyers. altran will pay for the deal with a euro 750 million rights issue and by raising new debt  it said in a statement. the combined group will have debt equivalent to 3.25 times ebitda when the deal closes. crédit agricole  goldman sachs and morgan stanley advised altran on the deal  while jp morgan advised kkr. “through this acquisition  altran will be uniquely positioned to offer an unmatched value proposition to its clients and outpace competition. altran will have a superior scale and scope  and now masters all four critical criteria necessary to lead the industry: a global presence and reach  leadership across most industries  strong expertise in key technology domains  and a superior global delivery supply chain ” said dominique cerutti  chairman & ceo of the altran group. altran operates primarily in high technology and innovation consultancy  which account for nearly 75% of its turnover. private equity firm apax partners is one of the key shareholders in altran  with 16.9% stake. though the investment and the deal is predominantly controlled by kkr’s us tech team  the transaction assumes importance as it marks a full exit from investments done by the new york-headquartered pe giant before the 2008-09 financial crisis. “this also emphasises the point that india is one of the most important markets for kkr  where it could generate decent returns across portfolios. this may also help in large india allocation from kkr’s fresh asia fund ” said a source  close to kkr. the us buyout giant recently raised $9.3 billion for a fresh asia fund  the highest ever raised by any asset manager for investments in the region. headquartered in santa clara (california)  aricent provides design and engineering capabilities to help its clients get to market faster  transform legacy products to digital  and create new revenue opportunities. it has 10 500 employees  of which 8 500 are located in india. the company generated revenues of $687 million for the twelve-month period up to june 2017  and operated through 24 engineering centers and design studios  serving 360 clients globally.</div></div>