<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi/mumbai: schneider electric se  the french industrial multinational along with it’s consortium partner temasek  has entered final rounds of negotiations with larsen and toubro to acquire its electric and automation division for rs 15 000 – rs 17 000 crore as india’s largest engineering group looks to prune its portfolio and exit non-core areas  said multiple people aware of the ongoing developments.  both parties have entered into an exclusivity agreement for bilateral discussions with an aim to close all outstanding matters by this calendar end. the french-singaporean consortium has edged past the other serious contender eaton corporation with its aggressive bidding  the sources mentioned above said. others who had also earlier also evaluated the target include abb  siemens ag  hitachi  honeywell and few global buyout funds but eventually opted out because of the high valuation expectations. bank of america merrill lynch and citi are advising schneider in the transaction.  spokespersons of schneider  temasek and l&t; declined to comment on market speculation.   the transaction is likely to be funded as a leverage buyout where in financing will be raised on the balance sheet of the target. the division is expected to clock rs 860 crore of ebitda in the current fiscal. “schneider has been really aggressive throughout. “at 20 times ebitda this will be an expensive bet  tough even for other global peers to match ” said an investment banking official closely following the developments.  however  l&t;’s high valuation expectations may still turn out to a deal breaker warned an official directly in the know. but company watchers feel prospects of a successful transaction are brighter this time around because the division’s plants have been segregated from the parent and real estate has been clearly demarcated at all the locations  thereby making it easy to value the assets. the company has been steadily monetizing its land in powai through realty projects over the last four years.  pruning the portfolio the business is relatively short cycle and accounts for only 1% of l&t;’s $41bn order backlog (even though it accounts for 6% of core revenue). this is a mature cash cow with return on capital employed (roce) at 23% (only 4.5% of l&t;’s consolidated capital employed) but with a growth profile less compelling as compared to its leadership position in engineering & construction business verticals. there is also minor synergy loss on account of captive products for its transmission and distribution and automation projects business. therefore the company revived its plans to exit earlier this year.  it also fits in with its ongoing portfolio restructuring. in the last year  the conglomerate – with a diversified presence in in technology  engineering  construction  manufacturing and financial services -- in over 30 countries with $17 billion in revenue  has sold several non-core assets. in october  l&t; sold unlisted subsidiary ewac alloys ltd to uk-registered esab holdings ltd  for rs522 crore while in august  it sold its entire stake in unlisted l&t; cutting tools ltd to imc international metalworking companies bv  owned by berkshire hathaway inc.  for rs174 crore.  in fy17  l&t; monetised its stake in its two key it subs. this  together with the divestment of general insurance business  helped the company to completely fund its investments in nabha power and hyderabad metro in fy17. most analysts expect even going forward  investments to be limited to development businesses and consolidated capex to moderate to rs 3000 crore annually vs rs 8000 crore over fy12-16.  but if successful  this will be the largest divestment by am naik  l&t;’s non-executive chairman who just stepped down from executive positions following his 52-year stint. in case the talks fail  l&t; plan b includes the option of listing.  the electrical and automation business offers a wide range of products and solutions for electricity distribution and control in industries  utilities  infrastructure building and agriculture sectors. its product portfolios include includes low and medium voltage switchgear systems  industrial and building automation solutions  surveillance systems  energy meters and protection relays and has manufacturing facilities at navi mumbai  ahmednagar  vadodra  coimbatore and mysuru in india as well as in saudi arabia  jebel ali (uae)  kuwait  malaysia  indonesia and the uk. the business runs six switchgear training centres across the country educating engineers  consultants  contractors  technicians and electricians about good electrical practices. the division generated revenues of rs 4 650 crore and operating profit of a little over rs 700 crore in 2016-17.  “if the deal is consummated at ~rs150-170bn  the implied fy18e ev/ebitda is fairly rich at 21x-23x even though it contributes ~8% to ebitda and the growth outlook is relatively lower compared to the core e&c; business ” said sumit kishore  capital goods and infrastructure analyst at jp morgan. the cash would also help the company relook at large fresh infrastructure bot project exposure after refraining for over 3-4 years. “in our base case scenario  we expect working capital pressure to ease further. fruition of the deal could) accelerate the process of de-leveraging  offer more headroom to take on capex intensive bot and even consider a special dividend.”  et in its august 24th edition was the first to report that schneider and eaton are the final contenders in fray.  eye on india schneider corporation that specialises in energy management and automation solutions  spanning hardware  software  and services global industrial conglomerates has been aggressively expanding its foot print in indian market. since 2010 it has made more than half a dozen acquisition that include luminous  digilink  uniflair  areva t&d;  and invensys among others. some of them are standalone acquisition some are parts of global deal.  for schneider  which has relatively small operation in india comparing to siemen ag and abb  the acquisition will help in making a strong player in one of the fastest growing markets that is far from saturation. its indian subsidiary schneider electric infrastructure limited in which it owns 75% stake  has reported operating profit of rs 67 crore on a turnover of rs 1 288 crore  last fiscal. its market cap is rs 3 162 crore.  most of the european conglomerates are facing headwinds in their home markets and a slowdown in china  once pegged as the single most important outpost for many. indian economy that has been on a gradual rebound offers them a sweet spot  feel analysts.  more importantly  with a wide footprint  spanning across india  uae and saudi arabia  a potential takeover will further consolidate their presence in several emerging geographies. </div></div>