<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: after losing the media rights of indian premier league (ipl) to rival star india  sony pictures networks india (spn) has gone ahead and acquired the exclusive media rights of cricket australia – men’s international matches for next six years  beginning with the magellan ashes series in november 2017.  the rights of cricket australia were earlier with star india.  during the rights window  australia will host india multiple times apart from pakistan and south africa. the ashes of 2021 – 22 is also part of the deal.  separately  spn has also acquired the media rights for women’s international cricket played in australia  beginning with the commonwealth bank ashes later this month  along with the big bash league and the rebel women’s big bash league.  the agreement for the indian subcontinent also covers pakistan and sri lanka markets.  cricket australia was in talks with multiple broadcasters in india for some time to lock in broadcast partner ahead of the ashes series. however  as there was a growing dispute between the board and players’ association  there was some delay in signing the deal.  while its longtime partner star india was a clear favourite  it is learnt that after winning the ipl rights  star india was not very keen on paying hefty sum for australia rights. spn’s payout for the deal could not be ascertained till the filing of this report.  np singh  ceo  spn  said  “cricket enjoys a high viewership in india and with the acquisition of the media rights of cricket australia  we are ensuring that the viewer has continuous cricketing action  all through the year.”  james sutherland  ceo  cricket australia  added  “we are delighted to conclude this agreement with sony. they understand the global value of australian cricket. we’re also delighted with their support of our national women’s team  and the men’s and women’s big bash.”  “one of australian cricket’s key strategies is to ensure it has a sustainable approach to investment  so that we can keep growing the game  and the six-year deal with spn is part of that strategy ” sutherland added.  it is learned that cricket australia has been targeting $200 million per year from all the broadcasting deals.  rajesh kaul  president - sports and distribution business  spn  said that cricket australia complements spn’s existing portfolio of five international cricket boards – south africa  sri lanka  pakistan  west indies and zimbabwe. “the content line-up across the six boards strengthens our position in cricket broadcasting ” said kaul. </div></div>