<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kolkata|mumbai: boston-based american tower corp (atc) is set to buy 20 000-odd standalone towers of vodafone india and idea cellular at an enterprise valuation just over $1 billion in an all-cash deal  two people with direct knowledge of the transaction told et. vodafone and idea  india’s second and third largest mobile operators that have announced a merger to become the market leader  are learnt to have decided on a combined sale of their standalone towers to atc after parallel negotiations with canada’s brookfield asset management and local infrastructure fund idfc project equity broke down due to differences over valuation  one of the persons cited above said. senior atc executives  and their counterparts in idea and vodafone india  are camping in mumbai  finalising the contours of the deal  the sources said. atc chairman james taiclet had interacted with the idea and vodafone top brass during his india trip earlier this month to communicate the tower major’s interest in their captive towers  one of them said. the sale of vodafone india’s 10 926 standalone towers and idea’s 8 886 towers are being managed by morgan stanley and bank of america-merrill lynch (baml)  respectively  the sources said. et’s emailed queries to atc  vodafone  idea  idfc project equity and baml remained unanswered as of press time tuesday. brookfield asset management and morgan stanley declined to comment. the roughly rs 7 000-crore enterprise valuation of vodafone and idea's combined captive towers is due to some 3 000-odd overlapping tenancies on either side  which would reduce vodafone and idea's tenancy ratios on their captive towers  said one of the people cited earlier. else  valuation would have been higher. captive towers  typically  are also not designed for sharing  which would also impact their valuation as a potential buyer would need to invest substantially on refurbishing them to enable multi-sharing  said a tower industry expert who did not wish to be named. vodafone and idea are also known to be looking to sell their stakes in indus towers to bolster the combined balance sheet in their leadership battle against bharti airtel and reliance jio infocomm. the vodafone-idea merger is slated to close mid-2018. atc  one of the world’s largest independent tower companies  has been silently augmenting its towers portfolio in india ever since it bought a 51% stake in viom networks for rs 7 635 crore in the largest inbound acquisition in fy16. a potential buyout of vodafone and idea’s captive towers would boost atc’s india towers portfolio to nearly 80 000  taking it closer to indus towers and bharti infratel that command portfolio of about 1 23 00 and 91 000 towers  respectively. brokerage morgan stanley in a recent note said: “telco operators are increasingly looking to divest their tower assets to fund wireless data capex  or de-lever their balance sheets.” such exits could lead to the emergence of an independent tower industry. sector experts expect big-ticket consolidation in the towers space in the aftermath of the telecom industry rapidly slimming to three large players from more than 10 not too long ago.et view: boost to service providers it is welcome indeed that multiple funds abroad are keen to invest in telecom infrastructure here. such assets would provide relatively risk-free returns  in the medium term and well beyond. the move would enable service providers to monetise infrastructural assets  focus on service quality and purposefully improve upon them  in the midst of ongoing consolidation in telecom.</div></div>