<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>in the early years of flipkart  cofounder sachin bansal liked to take on his colleagues in rather intense rounds of console and computer games. no one handed the game to the boss. bansal fought hard — he wanted to be a pro gamer himself — and those who beat him were treated to lunch. while this helped in letting off steam as he steered the fortunes of india’s fastest growing online retailer  bansal  now 37  kept the adrenaline going for more than a decade as he led the company he founded with binny bansal  helped raise over $4 billion in funding and eventually handed over the chief executive officer’s baton to kalyan krishnamurthy. both the bansals are gaming geeks — binny’s onetime career aspiration was to build computer games — and now they are gearing for one crucial round of play. they are preparing to sell their company  which started with selling a book in october 2007  to walmart  a $500 billion american behemoth  known for its order  scale and stinginess. flipkart will be its route to the great indian market. flipkart  over the past few years  has been in a dogged fight with american tech major amazon for india’s online market. while flipkart has raised billions of dollars to fuel this duel  amazon has committed over $5 billion to its india business. in the last couple of years  this confronta -tion saw other rivals falling by the wayside — for instance  snapdea l   which spurned a $1 billion takeover by flipkart  is today valued at $100 million or less — and these two firms establishing a firm grip on india’s ecommerce market  which is expected to hit $200 billion by 2026  according to morgan stanley. although amazon had also thrown its hat into the ring to buy flipkart  a cluster of bankers  ecommerce executives and analysts say walmart has  for all purposes  clinched the deal. meanwhile  alphabet  google’s parent company  is also reportedly willing to commit up to $2 billion for a minority stake in the company. that would see the combined might of alphabet  walmart and flipkart taking on amazon. walmart declined to comment for this piece and emails to flipkart went unanswered.tipping point some experts say that the walmart-flipkart deal — when signed — will mark a tipping point for the industry. “to anyone who was looking for a pure indian ecommerce success story  this deal will be seen as a disappointment ” says anindya ghose  a professor at new york university. “it indicates yet another failure of a primarily homegrown indian firm (flipkart  for all its foreign investors  is an indian firm) to take on an mnc amazon) and compete credibly without having to partner with another mnc (walmart).” india is the next big prize after us and china  and this deal will give walmart a substantial foot in the door. amazon is  meanwhile  focused on the prize — a rapidly growing number of indians buying online. “amazon. in is the fastest growing marketplace in india  and the most visited site on both desktop and mobile  according to comscore and similar-web ” amazon founder jeff bezos said in a note to shareholders in april. “the amazon.in mobile shopping app was also the most downloaded shopping app in india in 2017  according to app annie.” the retail giant has made strong gains in electronics and fashion and apparel. “in the us  walmart is the only formidable competitor left for amazon ” says kartik hosanagar  professor  the wharton school  us. “walmart has been growing its ecommerce operations a lot and amazon has been increasing its footprint with physical stores. it’s natural for that battle to spill into international turf as well. walmart’s looming investment in flipkart reflects that.”walmart’s second strike despite the pessimism of experts such as ghose of nyu  flipkart is being positioned as the arrowhead for walmart to have another crack at the indian market  four years after it broke its joint venture with bharti for a cash-and-carry business. this time around  walmart’s choice in india is starkly different. while flipkart has absorbed billions of dollars of investor money to rapidly grow its business  its main bait has been deep discounts. flipkart  say analysts  has not only built a strong business online  but it also has strong ties with some 100 000-plus sellers and relationships with companies such as xiaomi  a leading consumer electronics brand. back in 2014  xiaomi had tied up with flipkart to host a flash sale of its mi3 phone  which saw some 500 000 users trying to log in. xiaomi sold out its inventory in eight minutes and the server crashed. “if you have crashed flipkart it means you have arrived ” xiaomi india’s manu jain told et magazine in november last year. while walmart has made a series of deals in geographies such as china  it faces online giants as well as brick-and-mortar retailers. in india  too  there are local players. dmart  a company founded on the same frugal foundation as walmart  is booming. it has over 140 stores  with 20-30 expected to be set up annually. kishore biyani of big bazaar — who visited amazon’s headquarters in seattle in january — is on a comeback trail  after selling or shuttering many of his businesses over the past few years. in india  walmart has also had to find a way around legislation banning foreign direct investment in multi-brand retail. while the tie-up with the bharti group provided the american giant with some insights into the indian market  the differences in outlook eventually ended the rocky relationship in 2013. then  in 2015  walmart was accused of paying bribes to local officials in india. walmart reentered the picture about a year ago when it began due diligence on flipkart. “walmart has been interested in india for over a decade now ” says hosanagar. “its previous partnership with bharti failed. flipkart will be a better partner for walmart because flipkart has an ownership structure and a corporate culture that will suit walmart better than bharti did.” walmart has been engaged in a bruising battle with amazon — in the us and elsewhere. while its home turf is under threat from amazon  which is pushing more and more people to shop online and even buying old-school players like whole foods  walmart has been desperate to globalise its business and build its own technological arsenal. it has acquired jet.com  shoebuy and bonobos to beef up its tech muscle. the results have been mixed. in china and japan  it strug gled to make a mark. now  flipkart’s last steps as an independent company may also be walmart’s first steps to redeem its india business. “global business and india share a symbiotic relationship and the country is the most attractive market in present times when there is a slowdown in many parts of the world ” krish iyer  walmart’s india chief  said at an event in delhi recently. in some categories such as apparel and white goods  flipkart will be aided by the bentonville-based behemoth. for example  flipkart and its fashion and apparel businesses  myntra and jabong  want to scale their private label initiatives and could be helped by the vast reach of the giant retailer. last year  sachin bansal made it clear that flipkart was focused on growth  even as it was raising funds and talking quietly to walmart on a possible sale. “we have some focus areas we continue to invest in… whether it is our supply chain  expansion of our selection and thinking of new ways of bringing down prices. ai and machine learning are also focus areas ” he told et now on the sidelines of the et startup awards last year. several investors  partners and vendores who have dealt directly with walmart say flipkart will benefit from the former’s focus on profits and bottom line. “flipkart’s margins have improved dramatically (from around -50% to 25-30%)  but this will help them think more like a retailer and less like a discount-driven etailer ” says arvind singhal  ceo  technopak  a retail consultancy. “in this deal  what walmart values the most is flipkart’s 100 million users and the access to perhaps the only large market they haven’t formally entered.” according to data from his firm and industry sources  the total indian retail market as in fy2018 is $650 billion and a tenth of this is occupied by organised retail. ecommerce accounts for 3%  making it a $19.5 billion market.go cart flipkart’s transition is unlikely to be painless. in the shift from profligacy to profits  flipkart is also expected to look inward and streamline the bloated marketing  sales and supply chain teams  two senior management consultants told et magazine. despite sachin bansal’s statement stressing on ai and machine learning  technology is not likely to be a big priority going forward. walmart invests several billion dollars in technology and opened a lab in bengaluru two years ago to build much of this in-house  including walmart pay  a service that allows customers to pay from an app. flipkart  say two senior executives in ecommerce companies  wants to increase ecommerce’s share in overall retail  closer to that in the us and china  where it is 10-12% of the total retail market. one of the executives points to its aggressive push in two ways — going deeper into the hinterland and widening its offerings in large goods  such as white goods and furniture.“this is an opportunity for flipkart to build several large  scalable and more profitable vertical businesses ” says a senior executive. in september 2017  flipkart restarted its furniture business  which it had put on ice in 2016  and has also been linked to furniture marketplace pepperfry. “with walmart’s network  each of these can be billion-dollar businesses on their own.” there are other areas that could scale. myntra is already nudging a billion dollars in gmv  and could be aided in its private label push. the parent company made a big splash with private labels in 2016  launching over 50 of them and is reportedly launching 160 more. started two years ago  flipkart’s private label began under the smart-buy brand for consumer electronics and accessories  and has since expanded into men’s apparel with metronaut and women’s with divastri and the marq range of white goods. working with walmart  which has large in-house brands  flipkart is expected to hasten the growth of this business.as flipkart moves to a new 8 30 000 sq ft headquarters in bengaluru  the future of india’s largest homegrown ecommerce company may unfold in a proposed 100 acre logistics park  where the firm is planning to invest hundreds of millions of dollars and employ some 20 000 people  directly and indirectly. set up to take advantage of the gst rollout — and expected to cut lead times by 20% — this unit  combined with increased invesment in ekart (`1 830 crore in mid-2017)  will smoothen flipkart’s new journey. walmart has storied skills in managing supply chain  logistics and driving down costs and it could help flipkart fine-tune its business as it hopes to compete with amazon and build a hybrid model — online and offline. the future is a different game.</div></div>