<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>analjit singh led max financial services is in talks with aditya birla group to explore a merger of their life insurance businesses  birla sun life and max life insurance with the aim to create one of the top 3 private life insurers in the country  said multiple sources aware of the discussions.  parallely  the delhi based serial entrepreneur is also believed to be negotiating with uk-based northern trust which manages a trillion dollar of assets and pe firm apax partners to sell his promoter stake of 30 per cent in max financial services.  these negotiations are at an early stage and the various groups are examining the regulatory contours but gathered momentum after hdfc standard life insurance co. ltd and max life insurance co. ltd called off their proposed merger end july  failing to win regulatory approval for a union that would have created an insurance giant with rs1.1 trillion in assets.    however the sources mentioned above warned that these discussions may not gaurantee a transaction.  birlas have been on the lookout for scaled franchise for long while singh has been open to monetising his investments. the key rationale for exploring a merger is the fact that birla sun life does not have large bank partners which max has in the form of axis and yes -- the third and fourth largest private bank in the country. even though in the last one year  birla sun life have managed to tie up with six banks  they are all much smaller.  "birla-max discussions are ongoing at a shareholder level to work out the correct structure. it has not yet reached a board level " said an official in the know on condition of anonymity as the talks are in private domain. "increased scale can potentially yield to benefits of cost synergies as well as multi channel distribution  through agencies  brokers  direct marketing and bancassurance " he added. absence of a strong banca partner has been hurting birla sun life's distribution with premium mix shifting towards group business (62% contribution in fy17). in q1fy18  as per its management  new business premium saw 33-34% growth driven by retail segment.  “we expect more bank-insurance tie-ups  beyond the top four banks. .. max has option to either partner with these (beyond top four) banks or explore an m&a; option ” wrote analysts with kotak institutional equities last month.  cyril amarchand mangaldas is believed to be involved as a legal advisor in the ongoing birla-max negotiations. pe players like apax – having invested $1.5 billion since opening india office in 2007 with plans to deploy another billion in the next 4 years -- has historically been strong backer of financial services firm having backed shriram city union finance  cholamandalam finance as well as insurance brokerages assured partners  hub international worldwide.  northern trust too has been looking to invest in financial services in india. they had in the past explored opportunities in asset management business but did not invest.  spokespersons of max financial  aditya birla group declined to comment on speculation. mails sent to apax partners and northern trust did not get a response till press time.  the mfs stock has appreciated a little over 8% in the last 1 month.  birla sun life is a 51:49 jv between aditya birla capital limited (abcl) and canada's sun life. max financial services was formed in january 2016  as the result of a three way demerger of max india. mfs is the holding company for max life  india’s largest non-bank promoted private life insurance company. mfs currently holds 69% stake in max life  its japanese partner mitsui sumitomo owns 25% with axis bank owning 4.9% of the venture. the remaining 1% is held through management esops.  according to sources  one of the structures being explored is a plain merger of the two operating life insurance businesses and a subsequent change in the shareholding with aditya birla capital buying out singh and his partners either partially or entirely.  alternatively  abcl or any of the other suitors can buy into mfs and trigger an open offer  following which the operating companies and their listed holdcos can merge. the promoters analjit singh and family control 30.42 per cent of mfs.  "typically the regulator prefers mergers. so irda is unlikely to allow 2 entities with 2 licences with the same set of shareholders. it would be far easier to merge the businesses and then realign shareholding " said a mumbai based senior legal source specialising in insurance mergers.  the challenges  feel analysts  will be agreeing on any non compete fee and locking in axis -- the key value creator -- in the merged entity.  during the three way merger discussions the promoters of mfs had negotiated an rs 850 crore non compete fee from hdfc life as a condition for the deal. this was reminiscent of a similar transaction of 2012 when mitsui sumitomo insurance (msi) bought 26 per cent stake in max new york life insurance company ltd for around rs 2 731 crore  marking the exit of new york life insurance  the original foreign shareholder in the jv. the issue of a non compete fee caught in regulatory and minority shareholder crosshairs. this fee or control premium could again turn out to be deal spoiler.  max life  india's fourth largest private life insurer has a 7.9 per cent market share with assets under management (aum) of rs. 44 370 crore as at 31st march 2017  growing 24% over last year. in fy2017  the company reported individual adjusted sales of rs 2 639 crore  growing 25% and revenues of rs. 12 937 crore growing 19%. its embedded value stood at rs. 6 590 crore. as at 31st march 2017 with an operating return on ev (roev) of 20%. the value of new business (vnb) written during fy2017 was rs 499 crore  growing 29% over the previous year  and the new business margin stood at 18.8%.  compared to its peers  birla sun life insurance has been an under-performer in the insurance space. with a 7.1% market share  the total premium it collected stood at rs 5700 crores in 2017 versus rs 5200 crores in fy2013  whereas profit before tax has fallen from 540 crores in 2013 to just 120 crores in fy2017. birla sun life has embedded value of 3400 crores in fy2017.  "max is a little less than two times embedded value than birla while its equity value will be more than double. back of the envelope calculation should give max an equity valuation of rs 23 000 crore while that for birla should be rs 10 500 crore " said an investment banking official.  the proposed max life insurance acquisition deal with hdfc life was to happen at 4.3x embedded value whereas icici prudential trades at 4.10x fy2017 embedded value. typically these businesses get valued at 3-4x ev. crisil research forecasts new business premium for life insurers to grow at 11-13% cagr from fiscals 2017 to 2022  compared with 9% cagr between fiscals 2012 and 2017. they estimate total premium to grow at 13-15% cagr over the next five years  from rs 4 181 billion in fiscal 2017 to rs 7 900 - rs 8 100 billion by fiscal 2022. improving economic growth  low inflation  and increase in financial savings  along with rising awareness of insurance  would be the key catalysts. </div></div>