<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: us-based ebix inc has picked up a 50% stake in information technology-enabled services provider vara united in a deal that values the kolkata company at about rs 306 crore ($46 million). according to the terms of the transaction  ebix will infuse the cash into vara technologies’ subsidiary  vara united private limited  through the subscription of newly issued shares  which will see the atlanta-based company  through its indian subsidiary ebix software india  hold a 50% stake in a new joint venture entity branded varaebix. “the relationship with vara represents a significant opportunity to expand our presence in the banking and financial services in india  which is one of the leading high growth economies across the globe ” ebix ceo robin raina said in a statement. ebix said it expects the transaction to add to its earnings immediately  and has funded the deal using its cash reserves. the deal will see it push further into the country’s financial and insurance sectors. for ebix  2017 has been a busy year  with several acquisitions and joint ventures. the nasdaq-listed company with a market capitalisation of $2.34 billion  is estimated to have spent more than $250 million over the past six months  and is prepared to shell out more as it looks to consolidate its position  enter new categories and cross-sell products to the indian consumer.it began the current calendar year by snapping up mumbai-based payment solutions venture itzcash for rs 800 crore.the company then acquired the money transfer service scheme business of youfirst money express and the money transfer business wall street finance  both in august  before also acquiring the money transfer business of paul merchants for about $41 million a month later. earlier this month  it announced its buyout of online travel portal via.com for $74 million. “the vision is very clear – to be the largest financial exchange in india...anything that is complimentary in nature  and fits our strategic vision  we are not going to shy away…we have earmarked a certain amount of funds  which has been easily consumed…if the investment requires more than $100 million  we won’t step back ” bhavik vasa  chief growth officer at itzcash  had told et in an earlier conversation.this is also the second joint venture entered into by ebix in india in the current year. in october  the company signed a memorandum of understanding with the bombay stock exchange to set up an insurance distribution network in the country.vara provides it and bpo outsourcing services to large indian financial entities  along with embedded staffing  software development and infrastructure management services to clients. according to an official statement released by both companies  vara has an annual revenue run rate of about $31 million.“our partnership with ebix is a concrete step in our business journey to further build on our solid foundation and would help us in achieving the goal of becoming a leading technology player in banking and financial services ” sujit kanoria  director at vara  said. </div></div>