<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kolkata | mumbai: with the deadline to submit bids for essar steel now passed  the next step is to see if the two bidders would qualify under the insolvency and bankruptcy code to acquire the steelmaker.the decision rests on accounting and consultancy firm grant thornton  which has been appointed by banks to evaluate the bids. essar steel faces claims worth rs 49 000 crore from financial lenders and rs 23 000 crore from operational creditors.“the (evaluation) process is likely to take at least a couple of weeks ” a person with knowledge of the process told et.lakshmi mittal’s arcelormittal and numetal mauritius  a consortium backed by russia’s vtb bank and rewant ruia  a scion of the ruia family that controls the essar group  are the two bidders for the company.the last date to submit bids was february 12. essar steel’s committee of creditors met on wednesday to discuss the process.before the bids are opened  eligibility of the bidders need to be ascertained. price bids for another steelmaker  electrosteel steels  which closed in early january are yet to be opened.there is considerable buzz among legal circles that the numetal bid could face hurdles under a new amendment to the bankruptcy code. section 29a of the code bans promoters of defaulting companies from bidding for stressed assets. shashi and ravi ruia  the founder-promoters of essar steel  have been barred from bidding. rewant is the younger son of ravi ruia. lenders have also contested numetal’s recent agreement to purchase 70% equity of a key infrastructure pipeline controlling raw materials supply to the essar steel plant — this deal with srei infrastructure is expected to affect the valuation of essar steel. while the delhi high court issued a stay order on the purchase on tuesday  numetal has offered to help refinance the “dissenting lenders”. the liquidation value of essar steel — the least recoverable value of the asset determined by an independent evaluator — is estimated at rs 20 000 crore. no bid below this amount will be allowed to go through.the numetal bid is tipped to be upwards of rs 35 000 crore  according to people close to the development.to steer clear of the legal issues preventing it from bidding for stressed assets in india  mittal’s arcelormittal recently sold its 29% stake in uttam galva at a loss. through an inter-se transfer of shares among promoters  sainath trading company  an entity of the miglani family that promotes uttam galva  bought 4 13 27 931 shares  representing the entire block of shares owned by arcelormittal netherlands bv at an average of rs 24 each.</div></div>