<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai | kolkata: mukesh ambani-led reliance jio infocomm is poised to bail out younger brother anil ambani’s debt-ridden telecom business by buying the wireless assets of reliance communications (rcom)  having signed an accord that was announced on father dhirubhai ambani’s 85th birth anniversary.jio inked a definitive agreement to acquire specified assets of rcom and its affiliates in an all-cash deal on thursday. market and banking circles pegged the deal size at about rs 24 000 crore  but this was not confirmed by either of the companies.rcom said it would use the proceeds of the cash deal solely for prepayment of debt. the company  weighed down by rs45 000 crore of loans and the failed merger with aircel  had been in the midst of a strategic debt restructuring (sdr) programme with the lenders.state bank of india is its largest local lender while china development bank (cdb)  which had filed an insolvency petition in the bankruptcy court to recover $1.78 billion  or about rs11 460 crore  its largest overall lender. while cdb is expected to withdraw its insolvency petition by january 5 — the next date of hearing — sources at ericsson  which adopted a similar strategy to recover some rs1 100 crore dues from rcom  said its case was still on though the company officially did not comment.the deal  the contours of which were announced by anil ambani on december 26 as part of a new debt repayment plan  beat a deadline of december 28 by when the joint lenders forum (jlf) had to take a decision on whether to convert its debt to equity and would mean rcom can now exit the sdr process and retain ownership of the company whose focus will now be on enterprise business  with the wireless operations shut down.this agreement also came about a decade after the brothers divided the ambani empire between with them  with the telecom interests going to the younger sibling. thursday’s agreement marks the integration of the wireless assets of the two brothers under one roof as it had been before the split. reliance communications had shut its wireless business at the end of november.“jio or its nominees will acquire assets under four categories — towers  optic fibre cable network  spectrum and media convergence nodes (mcns)—from rcom and its affiliates ” the telecom unit of reliance industries said in a media statement. “these assets are strategic in nature and expected to contribute significantly to large-scale rollout of wireless and fibre-to-home services by the company.” the mukesh ambani company said the acquisition will be subject to approvals from governmental and regulatory authorities  consent from all lenders  release of all encumbrances on assets and other conditions. consideration is payable at completion of the deal and subject to adjustments specified in the agreement. rcom said it had signed definitive binding agreements with jio for the sale of its wireless spectrum  tower  fibre and mcn assets. jio was advised on the transaction by goldman sachs  citigroup global markets  jm financial  davis polk & wardwell llp  cyril amarchand mangaldas  khaitan & co and ey.the jio deal consideration  rcom said  “comprises primarily of cash payment and includes transfer of deferred spectrum instalments payable to the telecom department (dot).” rcom said jio had emerged as the highest bidder in a transparent process conducted under the supervision of a high-powered bid evaluation committee  comprising experts from banking  telecom and law. as many as 15 bidders vied for the telco’s assets. according to an industry source  airtel  vodafone india  idea cellular and several private equity players had also been in the race for rcom’s assets. airtel had earlier said that it was keen on some of rcom’s spectrum and equipment  but declined to comment on thursday. idea cellular and vodafone did not respond to et’s queries on the same.the rcom assets that will change hands include 122.4 units of 4g airwaves across the 850  900  1800 and 2100 mhz bands  over 43 000 towers  1 78 000 rkm (route km) of fibre with a pan-india footprint  and 248 media convergence nodes  covering 5 million sq ft used for hosting telecom infrastructure.good for the sector the deal is good for the sector  which is in consolidation mode  and would particularly “offer relief to rcom’s bankers as the stress levels on their balance sheets would ease significantly ” said prashant singhal  telecom  media and technology leader for emerging markets at ey. the “deal is good for jio as it consolidates its wireless infrastructure  including spectrum from rcom ” said mritunjay kapur  national head  telecom  media and technology for kpmg. former bharti airtel ceo sanjay kapoor said the deal was good news for debt-laden rcom and stakeholders seeking to recover dues.et earlier reported jio was believed to have submitted bids worth over .`18 000 crore for acquiring rcom’s assets  including spectrum  towers and optic fibre. another telecom analyst who did not want to be named said the jio-rcom transaction represented a bailout. “after the aircel deal fell through  what options did rcom have ” he said  referring to a merger plan between the two that got scrapped.earlier this week  rcom said it would sell its telecom assets  including spectrum  tower and fibre worth around rs 25 000 crore by march 2018 to prepay lenders and exit sdr. the company plans to also monetise its real estate assets to generate an additional rs 10 000 crore  and divest stake worth rs 4 000 crore in the residual rcom — which consists of the global undersea cable business  data centres and enterprise business  after having shut the wireless business — to overseas private equity investors. at the end of this all  rcom expects debt levels to be around rs6 000 crore  down from rs45 000 crore.rcom shares closed 7.72% higher at rs 30.96 on the bse on thursday. in three trading sessions  the telco’s stocks shot up nearly 90% adding rs 4 052.09 crore to its market valuation. rcom said it expects the deals to close in a phased manner between january and march 2018  subject to approvals.</div></div>