<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kumar mangalam birla  puneet dalmia  ajay piramal  sajjan jindal and even big bull rakesh jhunjhunwala will get another shot at buying bankrupt binani cement  in what could be one of the most competitive bids for assets under the insolvency process.this stems from a rise in binani’s liabilities from the original estimate. et had reported january 18 that sajjan jindal-led jsw cement had previously emerged as the highest bidder with an offer of rs 5 900 crore. the creditors and the resolution professional of binani cement have sought fresh bids from some of the suitors who had made offers last month  said multiple people aware of the matter. they include aditya birla flagship ultratech; jsw cement; a consortium of dalmia bharat and bain piramal resurgence fund; rakesh jhunjhunwala and radhakishan damani; heidelberg; and true north-ramco cement.the resolution professional  deloitte touche tohmatsu india llp partner vijaykumar iyer  has set a new deadline of february 12  extended from february 5.the additional liability of around rs 1 600 crore has cropped up due to binani cement’s corporate guarantee for the acquisition of a fibreglass asset in europe known as 3b in 2012 by group company binani industries  said the people cited above.“now all the bidders have to factor that in ” said one of those cited above. “this is a major development. one of the lenders  idbi  had won the claim in court and therefore this gets added on. it’s not a small number.”moreover  the resolution professional has also issued detailed evaluation criteria and uploaded them online  said prospective bidders on condition of anonymity. this wasn’t done last time. trips to china and the united arab emirates to evaluate the global sites are also being organised. “this is not a typical m&a; situation but a process involving psu (public sector unit) banks who want to be doubly sure before finalising ” said an executive whose firm is in the fray  on condition of anonymity. “the law is also evolving.” iyer did not respond to et's queries. bank of baroda referred binani cement to the national company law tribunal (nclt) in july last year after the unlisted subsidiary of binani industries failed to repay a rs 97 crore loan. the resolution professional set december 22 as the deadline for bids but this was extended to january 15 following requests by those seeking to participate. in november  as many as 15 companies  including international ones like france's lafarge and dublin-based crh  had submitted expressions of interest. lenders have made a claim of rs 3 884 crore on the company. this includes loans acquired by edelweiss asset reconstruction co. from banks and dues to state bank of india  canara bank and bank of baroda. apart from this  the company also faces claims of rs 2 429 crore from idbi bank and sbi in the form of corporate guarantees. the unprecedented move to seek bids afresh has raised eyebrows. “i am surprised at the decision. the whole idea is to move on quickly. we have already seen postponements. why delay any further ” said an official involved in the bid process. prized assetanalysts reckon binani is the last of the scaled assets available for inorganic opportunities in the domestic cement sector that has already seen significant consolidation.the company’s substantial capacity with limestone reserves and captive power facilities make it an attractive target for potential acquirers. cement makers with already established brands  logistics and sales network in binani cement’s catchment area will be well placed to derive synergies from the acquisition.the company’s rajasthan site has an annual capacity of 6.25 million tonnes along with a captive 70 megawatt power plant. it has a well-established brand in the north and markets its products in rajasthan  gujarat and maharashtra as well as the cement-deficit states of uttar pradesh  bihar  punjab  haryana and delhi. binani cement also has a 2 mtpa plant in china and a 3 mtpa plant in jebel ali  dubai  in the uae.experts said the rebid may largely see a three-way competition involving ultratech  dalmia-bain piramal and jsw. the liquidation value is believed to be rs 1 600 crore  meaning no bids below that price will be accepted. the first two are trying to plug their gaps and emerge as leading pan-india players while jsw  which lost out to nirma for lafarge’s india assets  is looking to scale up its own capacity through acquisitions.“we believe acquisitions of stressed assets would help dalmia to regionally diversify  further boosting its aspiration to become a pan-india cement producer ” said hsbc analyst rajesh lachchani. “the acquisition of binani cement in particular would help dalmia bharat increase its capacity by a fourth  bringing it broadly at par with acc and ahead of ambuja cement. the acquisition would also give exposure to the north and west regions where binani enjoys premium status.”</div></div>