<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai:housing development finance corp. (hdfc) is exploring the purchase of a controlling stake in canfin homes  the listed mortgage unit of state-run canara bank  said persons with knowledge of the matter. this will involve acquiring the entire 30 per cent stake of parent canara bank  they said.hdfc  which is in the process of raising rs 13 000 crore  will use some of the money to expand into the affordable housing segment while canara bank wants to offload stakes in units such as asset management and housing finance to improve its capital base. the mortgage subsidiary has a market capitalisation of about rs 6 000 crore. the remaining shareholding of canfin homes is with various private equity funds.“there are discussions between canfin and hdfc even as many private equity funds and some rival banks have shown interest in buying the stake ” said one of the persons.one possibility that has been discussed is an offer of rs 1 500 crore in cash and the rest in stock. hdfc would then have to make an open offer for an additional 26 per cent stake under the takeover rules.“we have met them but have not taken any call ” said an hdfc spokesperson.“we can look at organic  inorganic growth in the health insurance space  affordable housing segments ” keki mistry had said in a recent interview to et. he wasn’t referring to any specific acquisition targets.hdfc last made acquisitions in 2000  when it bought the hometrust housing finance co. from gujarat ambuja cements and raised stake in gruh finance to expand into new segments and geographies.canfin homes  which has 132 branches and 20 affordable housing finance centres  is present mostly in the southern part of the country. the stock ended tuesday at rs 456.80 on the bombay stock exchange  down 0.38 per cent  for a market value of rs 6 082 crore.“the management team of canfin homes had visited hdfc and the two companies are discussing a possible buyout ” said another person close to the development. “it could be a combination of all cash and cash and stock deal.”hdfc’s loan book was rs 2.96 lakh crore on march 31  2017. the average size of individual loans was rs 25.6 lakh against rs 25 lakh in the previous year. it reported an fy17 profit after tax of rs 7 443 crore.canara bank sold a 13.45 per cent stake in canfin homes last year to singaporebased caladium investment pte for rs 754 crore and now holds a 30 per cent stake. canfin homes had loans outstanding of rs 13 313 crore at the end of march 2017. it made an fy17 profit after tax of rs 235.26 crore against rs 157.11 crore in the previous year  up 49.74 per cent. of the rs 13 000 crore hdfc plans to raise  it has mobilised rs 11 104 crore through private and qualified institutional placements. the company has said rs 8 500 crore will be invested in hdfc bank and then it will look for opportunities in health insurance and affordable housing.“hdfc is largely present in the salaried and professional segment  where ticket sizes are upwards of rs 25 lakh ” said digant haria  assistant vice president  research  antique stock broking. “with an increased focus on affordable housing  where ticket sizes are lower  it may make sense for hdfc to acquire an hfc (housing finance company) operating in that space.”hdfc  canfin home dealharia said that canfin homes  repco home finance and gruh finance have built scale in the segment. repco also has a strong presence in the south  which may be of interest to hdfc. reports have suggested that private equity funds including tpg  bain and baring have shown interest in buying canfin homes. canara bank will short list buyers by february 22.the government has given a boost to affordable housing by creating a dedicated fund in collaboration with the national housing bank as it looks to fulfill its target of building such homes for all by 2022. also  to boost inventory of affordable homes in the coming fiscal year  the government has decided to build 5.1 million homes in rural areas. assistance has been provided to construct 3.7 million homes under the pradhan mantri awas yojana.</div></div>