<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: avenue capital group llc  a new york-based investment firm with $9.6 billion in assets under management  is set to acquire a majority stake in asset reconstruction co. (india) ltd (arcil)  according to two people familiar with the development.known for its deals in the distressed debt space  avenue capital will pump in about rs 1 000 crore to acquire the stake  said one of the persons cited above. arcil is india’s first and leading asset reconstruction company (arc).avenue capital will buy the stake from existing investors state bank of india  idbi bank  icici bank and punjab national bank. singapore sovereign fund gic will keep its 10% stake in the arc.“the discussions are in final stages and the deal is likely to be signed in a couple of weeks ” said one of the people cited above.since its inception in 2002  arcil has resolved non-performing assets (npas) worth more than rs 78 000 crore acquired from indian banks and financial institutions  according to the company website. founded by billionaire marc lasry in 1995  avenue capital has five offices in asia and the firm managed assets estimated at about $9.6 billion as of june 30.avenue capital’s asia strategy has a focus on australia  hong kong  singapore  south korea and japan as well as china  india and southeast asia. it invests in asia from the avenue asia special situations v fund.an arcil spokesperson declined to comment. avenue didn’t respond to queries.as bad loans have piled up in the indian banking system  several global financial institutions have established a local presence. plus  with the insolvency and bankruptcy code (ibc) in place  the bad loan resolution process is set to pick up pace  raising the prospect of a surge in business for arcs.gross non-performing assets (npas) or bad loans of indian banks stood at rs 10.3 lakh crore on march 31. it went up by rs 1.4 lakh crore from rs 8.86 lakh crore on december 31  2017. more than two dozen banks reported cumulative gross non-performing assets of more than rs 7.31 lakh crore at the end of the april quarter  an increase of about 50% from the corresponding period last year.“as ibc starts settling down with more success stories  interest from global funds  investors will keep increasing ” said kpmg’s head of resolutions and restructuring manish aggarwal. to leverage the opportunity best  funds will need to participate through an arc structure. hence the interest in either acquiring stakes in existing arcs or setting up afresh  he said.arc rivalryus private equity firm blackstone group lp acquired a majority stake in mumbai-based international asset reconstruction co pvt ltd (iarc) in march.canada’s largest pension fund manager cdpq acquired a 20% stake in edelweiss’ asset reconstruction company in 2016. ssg capital  a hong-kong-based stressed asset investor  acquired a 49% stake in asset care & reconstruction enterprise (acre) in 2014. ifc  the investment arm of the world bank  owns a stake in encore asset reconstruction co.other global investors that are active in india’s distressed assets space include us fund kkr & co  which has started its own arc; bain capital  which joined hands with piramal enterprises to launch a $1-billion stressed asset fund; and apollo global  which joined hands with icici bank for a joint venture  aion capital partners  to focus on distressed assets.arcs are also a key element of project sashakt that entails staterun banks seeking to revive npas outside the ibc. the plan also involves asset management companies and alternative investment funds. “under the sashakt formulation for addressing the stressed assets as well  one needs to play with amc-aif-arc structure to make the most out of this opportunity ” aggarwal said.</div></div>