<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div> mumbai: canadian investor brookfield is already exploring other strategic options in the indian telecom towers space and will still try to salvage its long pending acquisition of reliance communications’ (rcom) towers  although at a revised price after rcom’s merger talks with aircel fell through on sunday. however  the valuation of the rcom towers will need to be “seriously revised” given that half of the basis of the earlier value was future growth promise of the aircel  rcom combine  said a person familiar with the development. “brookfield is committed to forming a tower company in india.” brookfield is all set to put its binding $800 million-$1 billion offer for the independent tower assets of vodafone and idea in the first week of october. it is competing with atc and idfc alternatives to bag the 20 000 tower portfolio. the following month  it also plans to compete for acquiring a controlling stake in bharti infratel  said sources aware of the development. “the rcom deal is not dead yet for brookfield after investing so much time  effort and money. they even hired a ceo for the business who himself is a tower company veteran. a former pe executive is also on board. so expect renegotiations and a much lower valuations now that aircel’s tennacies will not be factored in ” said an official in the know. one of the sources mentioned above said  sensing trouble  brookfield had already offered a 20-25% revision in its offer price  something that was not accepted by rcom’s management. this could not be independently verified. mails sent to brookfield spokesperson did not elicit a response till this went to print. in its statement rcom said  “the company will continue to implement its plans for monetisation of its tower and fiber assets  as already announced.” “there are no great assets left in the tower sector  but a string of a few average ones could make a business given that airtel  idea-vodafone  and jio will need to expand quickly to compete ” said a person close to the deals. the indian telecom sector is expected to emerge with only three strong private operators as the others fall by the way-side in the wake of scathing competition. the reduction in players should reduce irrational pricing and therefore improve profitability. rcom had announced signing of the binding agreement with brookfield in december 2016 for a rs 11 000-crore deal to sell its tower business. the deal received necessary regulatory clearances  the latest being the nclt approvals. since 2015  rcom has been trying to sell the tower portfolio to deleverage its balance sheet. prior to brookfield  it signed a non-binding agreement with a tpg-led consortium but those talks failed too. “the previously investment in a portfolio of over 40 000 towers from reliance telecom is conditional on  among other standard conditions  the merger of rcom with aircel. these initiatives are still underway and as such  closing of the transaction is anticipated by the end of the year ” the investor had said in a release in august.</div></div>