<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: advent international and temasek-backed crompton greaves and homegrown pe fund everstone capital are competing to acquire home appliances brand kenstar in the final leg of the deal.  both have submitted binding offers and are in negotiations with the dhoot’s of videocon to enter into exclusive talks. while crompton greaves has bid at rs 1 400 crore  everstone capital has offered rs 1 300 crore for the company  said three people with direct knowledge of the deal.  “crompton greaves consumer electricals is the frontrunner ” said one of the persons with direct knowledge of the development. the deal that has been running for a year now has seen many suitors such as orient electric  symphony  havells  voltas among others.  started in 1995  kitchen and home appliances brand kenstar is part of the dhoot family owned videocon group. the company sells air conditioners  air coolers  mixer grinders and electric kettles and booked a loss of rs 26.42 crore on the back of rs 1 939.50 crore of operating income in the financial year ended march 31  2015. kenstar commands a healthy market share in different segments and has a strong dealer network. investment bank credit suisse is advising the dhoot family on the stake sale.    emailed queries sent to the spokesperson of crompton greaves and advent international did not elicit any response till press-time. when contacted  the spokesperson for videocon declined to comment.  weighed down by a debt pile of rs 43 000 crore  the group has been forced to consider sale of some of its assets to deleverage its balance sheet. last year  the lenders put pressure on the promoters to sell its mozambique oil assets to state-run oil and natural gas corporation (ongc) for $2.475 billion and its direct-to-home business to dish tv.  “the promoters initially expected a value of about rs 1 800-2 000 crore  however  since no bidder was ready to pay the price  the tag has been brought down to rs 1 500-1 600 crore ” said another person with knowledge of the matter. according to him  everstone capital had put in a bid of rs 1 350 crore for the company.  for crompton greaves consumer that was taken over by private equity funds advent international and temasek holdings in 2015 for rs 2 000 crore  buying kenstar would give it a deeper product portfolio that includes home appliances and air conditioners. crompton greaves’ current portfolio includes  fans  appliances  lighting  pumps  home automation  integrated security systems and wiring accessories. crompton greaves’ market share has since gone up from rs 5 800 crore to rs 13 518.9 crore as on date.  according to a july 2017 report by indian brand equity foundation  in 2015  revenue from consumer durables sector in india stood at $9.7 billion  which increased to $12.5 billion in fy16. the consumer durable market is expected to grow at cagr of 13% from fy05 to fy20 with around two third of the total revenue being generated from urban population and rest is generated from rural population.  companies such as godrej group  onida electronics  blue star and videocon industries are a few of the major domestic players operating in india’s consumer durable market. “the consumer durables market is expected to reach $20.6 billion by 2020. urban markets account for the major share (65%) of total revenues in the consumer durables sector in india.  there is a lot of scope for growth from rural markets with consumption expected to grow in these areas as penetration of brands increases. also  demand for durables such as refrigerators as well as consumer electronic goods are likely to witness growing demand in the coming years in the rural markets as the government plans to invest significantly in rural electrification ” the report said. </div></div>