<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>a consortium of aion capital partners and jsw emerged the strongest contender for acquiring monnet ispat and energy ltd  one of the initial 12 companies shortlisted by the reserve bank of india (rbi) for insolvency proceedings.tata steel  anil agarwal-led vedanta group and hong kong-based ssg capital were among those evaluating the asset but people aware of the matter said it was unlikely they submitted bids  making the aion-jsw the sole contender.aion capital is a jv between icici venture and apollo global management.sajjan jindal-led jsw steel has been eyeing distressed assets after successfully turning around ispat industries.  banking sources said the aion-jsw offer is an all-cash one  making it a compelling proposal for lenders. aion is the senior partner in the consortium.the last date for submitting binding bids was tuesday evening. monnet will be among the first of the 12 to get to this stage of the insolvency-resolution process  even though the last date has already been postponed twice.“of the four  aion-jsw have been most seriously evaluating this asset ” said one of those cited above. “the tatas too did serious due diligence but did not finally put in an offer. so far  limited bids have come in but even after the deadline hopefully some late entrants will also show up.”until the national company law tribunal (nclt) approves a resolution plan  suitors have room to submit proposals  even though it may make the process vulnerable to litigation  said another official involved in the process. the insolvency proceedings were initiated at the nclt’s mumbai bench.spokespersons of aion and jsw declined to comment.at least 10 companies had submitted initial expressions of interest  said sources in the know. other than those mentioned above  these were said to include tpg  blackstone  edelweiss  shyam metalics and a consortium of ssg capital and sarda industries. promoter sandeep jajodia had also shown interest but was barred by the government’s recent ordinance.depending on the number of bids  the committee of creditors along with the resolution professional — in this case sumit binani supported by grant thornton — will select the final contenders based on a set of criteria that include upfront cash recovery for financial creditors  equity stake offered to lenders  fresh equity infusion and experience in turning around stressed assets.since its inception in 1994  monnet has evolved from a sponge iron manufacturer into a diversified steel  power and mining company but its fortunes dipped when the supreme court scrapped its coal block allocations in 2014.lenders led by the state bank of india converted a part of the debt into equity and currently control 51% of the company while the promoters hold 25.2%. the monnet stock ended tuesday at rs 33.30  up 3.74%.the company owes the lenders around rs 10 300 crore. its consolidated losses as of march amounted to rs 2 132 crore on total revenue of rs 1 375 crore.blackstone is an investor in the company but has pared its stake to just 2.28% as of september. another pe investor cx partners exited by selling its entire holding at a loss.(additional reporting by vatsala gaur)</div></div>