<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: lenders to gtl infrastructure have received bids from four players for buying up to 58% stake in the telecom tower company  said two people aware of the development. the four bidders include bain-piramal joint venture asset reconstruction firm  aion capital  a foreign telecom company  and a lesser-known investment firm —beam investments.  there are 16 lenders to gtl infra — including sbi  idbi  united bank of india and dena bank — and they are expecting rs 10 000 crore from the stake sale  the persons cited earlier told et.  the entity for which the bids have been submitted also includes assets of cnil  a company that was acquired by gtl infra in 2010 and is now being merged with the company. “three of the four bidders have already submitted the bids  while the fourth player would do so in the next two days ” one of the persons said on thursday.  gtl infra had gone for strategic debt reconstruction (sdr) in 2016. under the scheme  the lenders had converted their debt of about rs 8 500 crore into equity and have been looking to sell it.  “the lenders had taken a haircut of about 20% when they were converting the debt to equity. the bankers converted the debt to equity at rs 4 a share with a face value of rs 10 ” said another person close to the banks.  according to the persons cited earlier  the banks are looking to hasten the bidding process and are hoping to finalise the top two players by january and complete the deal by end of march. in the next round  the lenders and investment bankers are expected to begin negotiations with the bidders.  it was initially speculated that several global private equity firms are also looking to acquire majority stake in the company  but no bids have come from that quarter.  a spokesperson for gtl said  “the stake sale step is as per the sdr process.”  while sbi and bain and piramal declined to comment on the matter  an email query to aion capital remained unanswered till as of press time. the foreign telecom company that has shown interest in gtl infra could not be reached for comments either. the telecom company was led by a maverick investor who had entered in to a deal with gtl infra earlier. he  too  did not respond to et’s query. mails sent to the spokesperson of the telecom company bounced.  on valuation  gtl infra’s spokesperson said  “we do not wish to be drawn into speculation overvaluation; however  equity value is unlikely to be below rs 10 000 to rs 12 000 crore.”  according to both the people in the know  promoter manoj tirodkar may also look to exit the company.  as per bse data  the promoter owned 14.64% stake in gtl infra as on november 16.  on whether tirodkar would look to exit gtl infra  the company spokesperson said  “the promoter’s next steps are still to be decided and the promoter will do what it takes to make the sdr successful for the banks.”</div></div>