<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: walt disney’s proposed purchase of rupert murdoch’s 21st century fox and non-us entertainment assets may face tax scrutiny in india with authorities planning to use provisions of a controversial five-year-old law to see if tax on the deal needs to be paid here.top tax and government officials said that the income tax department could ask both disney and the murdoch group to submit all documents and data on the deal  formally kicking off scrutiny of the transaction.three people in the know said the move may not necessarily lead to a tax liability as the 2012 law provides a level below which transactions can escape tax. according to the provisions of the law designed to tax indirect transfer of assets  short-term capital gains tax of 40% and long-term capital gains tax of 20% is applicable on all major and minor international transactions if substantive value of the deal is derived from india.the substantive value  according to the law  is defined as being applicable to cases where an offshore company being sold derives more than 50% of its value from its assets in india. tax experts say it is difficult to ascertain if the disney-fox deal falls within the ambit of indirect transfer of asset rules without studying the balance sheet of fox and its group companies.the i-t scrutiny will first try to do that. an email questionnaire sent to star india was forwarded to the global team  which did not revert till the filing of this report. questions sent to disney india did not elicit any response till press time on friday.   “post vodafone and amendment to the law  whether indirect transfer of assets clause is applicable will be determined by the indian tax department and they will then arrive at a conclusion after going through the facts themselves. in such large international deals  the government is quick to issue information seeking notices and post that  demand that the transactions be scrutinised ” said jeenendra bhandari  a media tax expert.indian assets of fox — star india  hotstar  star sports network  and fox star studios — have an estimated value of about $15 billion  say industry trackers.this is without considering its close to 30% stake in dth firm tata sky. last year  edelweiss securities valued star india at $14.3 billion (rs 97 000 crore) with rs 63 600 crore for its entertainment business  rs 10 200 crore for hotstar and rs 18 000 crore for the sports business. star also owns the global rights to ipl  which it bought earlier this year for rs 16 347.5 crore ($2.5 billion). if this is included  the valuation only goes up. the government had introduced indirect transfer of share provision in 2012 after the controversy over the sale of its share of the india mobile phone business by hutchison whampoa to british giant vodafone. as per the indirect transfer of shares regulation  if shares of an indian company held by a foreign fund or a company constitute more than 50% of its total assets and the value exceedsrs 10 crore  the transaction would be taxed in india.“in any global deal  whether the transaction is liable to tax in india or not depends on the value attributable to indian assets and will also depend on whether shares of indian entities are directly transferred  or whether the transfer is some levels up in the structure  and also whether any of the selling entities have relief under the tax treaty — such as say  mauritius or luxembourg ” said abhishek goenka  partner and leader  corporate and international taxation  pwc india.he added that tax incidence in india is generally factored in as part of the negotiations in global deals. in cases where valuations of indian companies don’t form more than 50% of total value of the deal  they could still be taxed under a direct transfer of shares.the income-tax department has a department dedicated to tracking global deals  especially of those companies which have a presence in india. as a first step the tax department would ask both star india and disney to submit details of their revenues and deals to take further action.“as a concept  indirect transfer of shares is absolutely relevant and it could get triggered in such an international deal and domestic tax may arise in india if the value of such indian shares exceeds the prescribed thresholds. in such cases  there is a reporting obligation cast on the indian entity ” said sanjay sanghvi  partner  khaitan & co. </div></div>