<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: mukesh ambani-led reliance brands that sells high street labels like ermenegildo zegna and bally among others bought out l catterton asia’s around 40% stake in genesis luxury  its direct competitor in luxury retail  multiple sources familiar with the developments said.  the unprecedented move  perceived to be inimical to genesis' founder promoters sanjay kapoor  jyoti narula and puneet nanda  designer satya paul's sons  is poised to change the dynamics of the business.  one of the sources mentioned above said the stake sale fetched rs 250-rs 300 crores  but this could not be independently verified.  genesis luxury is a group company of sequoia capital-backed genesis colors  and retails a diverse range of of brands including burberry  canali  paul smith  armani  just cavalli  and jimmy choo. reliance brands is an arm of reliance retail.  reliance brands  genesis luxury and spokespersons from l catterton asia did not respond to et's emailed questionnaires and calls seeking comments. l catterton asia is the former l capital.  in 2011  it invested around rs 60 crore in genesis luxury to acquire 25%. a year later  the fund invested an additional rs 75 crore to increase it to 40%. but since 2013  sources said l capital  has been seeking an exit  as it was unhappy with the business’s performance. et previously reported that capital had also offered kapoor to buy them out.  earlier this year  kapoor decided to list his privately held parent entity genesis colors and raise rs 500-650 crore of primary and secondary capital to infuse growth equity for expansion and help existing investors cash out. while sequoia  henderson private equity and mayfield cumulatively hold 41.5%  the founders own the rest. l capital held 40% in the drop down subsidiary genesis luxury.  but instead of waiting for the ipo  l capital chose a corporate coup. many see this renewed aggression stemming from l capital's new avatar. in 2016  lvmh’s investment arm l capital and american consumer-focused pe venture catterton had merged to form l catterton. the new partnership was expected to combine catterton’s existing north american and latin american private equity operations with lvmh and groupe arnault’s existing european and asian private equity and real estate operations  previously conducted under the l capital and l real estate franchises.    "this has come as a bolt from the blue for kapoor and his investors. the documentation has been completed " said an official directly involved on condition of anonymity. "genesis has to deal with a behemoth like reliance as l capital would have transferred all their rights in the company as well along with their significant economic interests. this is arguably the first time that a pe investor in india has dumped his minority stake to a fierce rival of their investee company  thereby opening the floodgates for many such potential transactions in similar cases where the junior financial partner and the majority shareholder are seen warring."  brands of genesis colors are present in 20 cities through over 100 standalone stores.  industry insiders believe in the long run this consolidation will help add heft. genesis had already gone through a recent round of restructuring and reshuffled key management positions with an eye to bringing under its roof more businesses and brands prior to listing.  managing director sanjay kapoor was made executive chairman of the genesis group  while nikhil mehra  the coo  moved on to become the ceo.  "a wider portfolio of luxury brands enables a company to take advantage of real estate concessions  overhead costs and other benefits. you have better bargaining power with malls and real estate providers given infrastructure challenges for luxury brands in india " said an official.  reliance brands had this june also inked a deal with italian luxury maker valentino to bring the brand to india  according to sources. the other brands in reliance brands’ burgeoning portfolio include amsterdam based fashion brand scotch & soda and kate spade new york.  “genesis is by far the largest distribution platform for luxury and masstige brands in india ” ravi thakran  managing partner of l catterton asia told et during an interaction last year. he added that the company has demonstrated strong revenue growth and continuous margin improvement since their investment.  the indian luxury market has been facing rough headwinds with income tax raids  and rules like the imposition of a 1% excise duty on gold and diamond jewelry products in budget 2016-2017  mandatory pan card identification for transactions above rs 2 lakh  and a 1% luxury tax to be deducted at source for goods exceeding rs 2 lakh which were introduced last year.  according to market research firm euromonitor  sales growth of luxury products dropped across categories in 2016. it said growth rate of overall retail value sales of luxury goods in india dropped from 24.5% in 2015 to 21.7% in 2016. </div></div>