<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kolkata: bharti airtel and vodafone india are keen to acquire some spectrum from reliance communications to add to their airwave holdings in key markets  people familiar with the matter said. the anil ambani-owned telco’s lenders are selling the spectrum to try and recover part of their rs 45 000 crore dues. the nation’s top two telcos are eyeing rcom’s 2100 mhz spectrum in 13 circles – delhi  mumbai  kolkata  punjab  madhya pradesh  bihar  assam  northeast  himachal pradesh  j&k;  orissa  west bengal and rajasthan – which expires in 2030  the people said. in addition  bharti airtel  vodafone india and idea cellular may seek rcom’s 900 mhz spectrum in himachal pradesh and madhya pradesh to plug gaps in their holdings in the two states and use them for 4g services  one person said. vodafone and idea are currently merging their operations. while both spectrum bands are currently used mainly to offer 3g services  they can deliver 4g services as well  experts said. the interest in acquiring rcom’s airwaves is driven by the telcos’ bid to augment spectrum holdings and better take on reliance jio infocomm  the latest entrant in the industry. experts said bid levels are likely to be lower than market rates because all major operators bought spectrum in october 2016 and there is a surplus in the market. “there is no immediate desperation to buy rcom’s spectrum in 900 or 2100 mhz bands  but if the valuations are good and there is a business case  vodafone could explore select acquisitions ” said an industry insider familiar with the telco’s strategy. analysts peg the market value of the 2100 mhz airwaves for their remaining 13-year validity at roughly rs 5 700 crore  based on the rates fetched in the october 2016 sale. rcom shelled out a little over rs 1 800 crore to buy the 900 mhz spectrum in 2015 and these airwaves  are reckoned to be worth rs 1 650-1 700 crore for their validity until 2035  the second person said. “the company has received a lot of interest for its spectrum in both the 900 mhz and 2100 mhz bands from various telcos ” a senior rcom official told et. he declined to identify the potential buyers. non-binding offers would need to be made in the next two weeks  the first person said. rcom  bharti airtel  vodafone india and idea did not reply to et’s queries on the matter. airtel  vodafone and idea are said to have approached sbi caps  which has been appointed by rcom’s lenders to seek buyers for the debt-ridden telco’s assets  including spectrum  network gear and fibre. an sbi caps spokesman declined to comment. one person said airtel could be keen on rcom’s airwaves to plug gaps in the 2100 mhz band in key markets such as kolkata and punjab  while vodafone could do the same in madhya pradesh  himachal pradesh and j&k.; industry experts said the appetite for rcom’s 900 mhz spectrum in mp and himachal is stronger as vodafone does not have these airwaves in both circles  while bharti has them in himachal pradesh and idea in mp. </div></div>