<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: two global steel giants — arcelormittal and nippon steel — are teaming up to jointly bid for bankrupt essar steel  said two senior executives who did not want to be named. the asset is expected to go under the hammer in the second week of february.arcelormittal and nippon steel had originally planned to submit independent bids for essar steel  which is among the five steel companies up for sale following rbi’s directions to refer 12 companies to bankruptcy court in june last year. the other key contenders for essar steel are tata steel  vedanta resources and the promoters of essar  the ruias  in partnership with russia’s vtb capital.japan’s nippon steel and billionaire lakshmi mittal-promoted arcelormittal decided to bid jointly for essar last week  said the people cited above. “the final contours of the tie-up are being worked out. we don’t really know the rationale for the tie-up as yet ” said one of the persons.arcelormittal declined comment on what it said was speculation. nippon steel couldn’t be reached over the weekend and there was no response to an email. partnership to intensify bidding“nippon steel has deep pockets but it does not have any presence in india and therefore partnering with those who are familiar with indian regulations is comforting ” said one of the persons. “for arcelor-mittal  partnership will add to the financial muscle needed for acquiring the company.”this partnership will intensify bidding for essar steel and result in lower haircuts for lenders. essar steel faces rs 54 851 crore in claims from financial creditors and rs 22 914 crore in claims from operational creditors. the five steel companies among the 12 are electrosteel steels  bhushan steel  monnet ispat and bhushan power & steel besides essar steel.of the five  the respective resolution professionals have accepted binding bids for monnet ispat and electrosteel steels  while the other three will be up for sale after the february 1 budget. jsw ispat in partnership with aion was the sole bidder for monnet ispat. vedanta resources emerged the highest bidder for electrosteel steels.tata steel has sought fresh bids for electrosteel steels after a clarification was issued on tax liability for acquiring distressed companies a day after deadline. jsw ispat has tied up with a japanese fund and piramal to bid for bhushan steel and is expected to face stiff competition from vedanta. “these developments show that bidding for steel companies  particularly essar  will attract intense competition and no one wants to take a chance in losing good assets at a discount ” said one of those aware of the development.the ruias will make every effort to retain their prized asset and their bid may be the most aggressive among all bidders  said people with knowledge of discussions.</div></div>