<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mukesh ambani-owned reliance industries (ril) is said to be in talks to acquire sameer manchanda promoted multi-system operator (mso)  den networks  two highly placed sources with the direct knowledge of the development told et.  "the deal is most likely to go through and the valuation den is looking at is between rs 2 000 core and rs 2 200 crore " one of the persons said. mso is the industry term for a cable company  which signs content and carriage deals with broadcasters and offer the services to local cable operators.  ril and den both declined to comment to et's detailed questionnaire  citing it as "market speculation".  ril  which has launched 4g services in the country under reliance jio brand  has been working on the launch of home broadband and cable tv services for quite some time now. it also has plans to offer quad-play services ­ broadband internet  wire line telephony  cable television and wireless.  however  as the market was undergoing a dynamic shift under the government mandated digitisation programme and ril was focussing more on the launch of jio  the cable tv plans were put on hold.  a possible acquisition of den netwroks will give ril a direct entry into 13 million households  including over 10.5 million digital subscribers.  "it is known that ril wants to enter this space. they already have a mso licence and they have laid extensive amount of fibre cable across the country. it is just a matter of time for the company to make some splashy acquisition and hit the ground running " a media analyst with a top brokerage firm said.  in 2015  ril's step-down subsidiary reliance jio media procured a pan-india mso licence from the information & broadcasting ministry. the same year  ril hired k jayaraman  a cable industry expert who led india's largest mso hathway cable & datacom  and sn shar ma  then ceo of den networks  to built its cable business.  while jayraman continues to be with reliance jio  sharma moved back to den networks as ceo last year.  incidentally  den has called for an agm on wednesday  but the person said it is unlikely to announce the deal so soon.  "talks are at an advanced level but it may not be announced at this agm " he added.  it is pertinent to note that this is not the first time that talks of den's acquisition have surfaced. last year  et reported that den was in talks with subhash chandra-promoted essel group's mso siti cable for a possible merger.  however  the talks failed to take off.the second largest mso in terms of subscribers  den's cable service is present in over 400 towns across 13 states. it is one of the dominant players in delhi and uttar pradesh. it also has presence in rajasthan  haryana  gujarat  maharashtra  karnataka  madhya pradesh  uttarakhand and kerala.  as of tuesday  den has a market cap of rs 1 703 crore with 36.78 per cent promoter holding. in 2013  us investment firm goldman sachs first picked up 17.8 per cent stake in den for rs 689 crore ($110 million)  at rs 217.50 per share. last year  on september 20  goldman sachs again bought a 6.7 per cent for rs 142.43 crore at a much lower price of rs 90 per share.  promoters and goldman sachs together hold about 61.28 per cent stake in the company . another source close to the situation said that ril might acquire goldman sach's shares as well  giving the pe fund an exit. this  however  could not be independently confirmed till the filing of this report.  den's net debt (as of june 30  2017) is at rs 134 crore. shares of the company closed at rs 87 apiece on bse on tuesday  up 2.65 per cent from previous close. </div></div>