<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>bengaluru: google has picked up a significant minority stake in hyper-local concierge and delivery player dunzo  its first direct investment in an indian startup underlining how the global search giant is quietly getting into an investment mode in the country. google led a $12-million investment in the bengaluru-based startup which also saw participation of early backers aspada investments and blume ventures. the investment is part of google's ‘next billion users’ push  as it seeks to build an ecosystem in india across high-frequency hyper-local transactions as well as in the healthcare  financial services  and education sectors. google wants to build an ecosystem in india similar to those of flipkart  paytm-alibaba and amazon india  ecommerce giants that are investing significantly across food-delivery  grocery and local services  said people familiar with google’s plans for the country. the dunzo deal comes after google international llc quietly infused rs 1 204 crore in its main local unit  google india pvt ltd  this year—its largest and only investment in the unit since 2008  when it infused rs 26 crore in it. the size of the latestinfusion  previously unreported  underlines the company’s intent to spend more aggressively on google india  which has been profitable for over a decade and yet not been aggressive on spending here. “i see a change in tack ” said rutvik doshi  managing director at inventus capital and a former googler  adding that google probably now sees india as a large enough market to make investments. “after getting the first 2 billion users  google has realised that to get the next 1 billion they will need to rethink their product stack and approach  as none of the new users has grown up on internet and have a different behaviour  socio-economic background and use case.” google did not immediately reply to an email seeking comment. over the last few months  google has been spending aggressively in india  offering discounts on its payments app  tez  as well as on its hyper-local services aggregator  areo. experts see possible synergies linking the investment in dunzo with areo and tez. dunzo  currently present only in bengaluru  runs an assortment of errands for users  such as picking up food from restaurants and groceries from stores  or your mobile charger that you forgot at a friend’s place. dunzo  initially launched on whatsapp in 2015  handles 3 500-4 000 tasks a day. “dunzo as a product ends up replacing the local search experience. largely  the goal with the product has been how do you make ‘local’ easy—either it is moving stuff or interacting with local stores ” said dunzo chief executive kabeer biswas. he termed the google deal a financial investment  but declined to share specifics. google’s investment in dunzo was through google asia pacific  and not through google capital  which has backed domestic startups including education technology firm cuemath and automobile classifieds company cardekho. dunzo plans to expand to half a dozen cities across india by the end of 2018  and to ramp up to 100 000 transactions a day by the end of 2018 from about 100 000 transactions a month now.</div></div>