<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: lenders to gtl infrastructure declined to share information about the company in an effort to block a reliance capital arm from bidding for the telecom tower company. gtl infra  where lenders currently own a majority  is running a sale process as part of a strategic debt restructuring exercise. after a decision to deny the anil ambani group company from bidding at the joint lenders’ forum (jlf)  lenders plan to send questions to reliance capital advisory services (rcasl) seeking clarity on its intent of the purchase.  the bankers at the jlf expressed concerns over reliance capital’s intention to buy gtl infra  given that its parent group is exiting the telecom tower business. they also discussed rcom’s own strategic debt restructuring plan which is under way and the dues reliance communications  the flagship company of the group  still has to pay gtl infrastructure.  “lenders decided not to consider a request of rcasl for participation in the sdr sale process ” said the minutes to the jlf meeting held on september 6  which et has reviewed.  gtl infrastructure declined to comment on the issue. reliance group and union bank  lead bank at the jlf  did not respond to et’s email either.ernst & young  that is running the sale process on behalf of the banks  also didn’t comment.  after the meeting  an advisory panel to the process recommended that since reliance capital is an independent arm of the group that owns reliance communications  the adag group should be asked to clarify its intent before their interest is rejected.  bankers are likely to ask reliance group for its latest audited balance sheet  and an explanation on its wish to re-enter the telecom tower sector even as its sister concern is ready to sell its towers to private equity players.  lenders also wondered whether the group will sign a non-compete agreement with brookfield or whether this acquisition would result in internal competition  given that reliance group plans to retain 49% in the tower arm  reliance infratel. as common lenders to rcom  they are also worried about how the potential acquisition will be financed.  “reliance capital is an unrelated arm of the adag group to its telecom business  so we have to send questions to reliance capital to decide whether or not to share information ” said another person close to developments. gtl infrastructure shares its financial business model  information memorandum  and other financial details with potential bidders after the “expression of interest” is accepted from the suitor.  “that (expression of interest to buy gtl infra) was before the aircel deal fell through. now  rcom first needs to get its house in order before looking at buying assets ” said a person aware of the developments. the minutes from gtl infra’s jlf also stated that the process is running a bit late  but this should not affect the overall timeline of the transaction. “there’s a lot of volatility in the telecom environment  so bidders need a little time  but initial bids should come in towards the end of october ” said the first person quoted above. he further said that the delay mentioned in the jlf minutes wasn’t due to this reason  but because of technical processes that needed to be completed.  as per the minutes  ernst and young  that’s running the structured debt refinancing deal  said there are 23 potential bidders for the telecom company  19 of which have signed non-disclosure agreements and received financial information to better judge the company.  the telecom tower sector  which seemed rosy in just january this year  has taken a turn for the worse as consolidation among telecom operators seem more imminent that imagined. idea cellular and vodafone india are in the process of merging; tata teleservices is on the verge of shutting down; reliance communications and aircel that had planned to merge are at the precipice of closure too as their planned merger came undone on october 1.  reliance infratel had received a bid of rs 11 000 crore from private equity brookfield in december 2016 and the adag group had said it would be retaining 49% economic interest in the venture. however  that valuation was contingent to a wireless deal with aircel. now that the aircel deal is off  brookfield is likely to revalue rcom.  reliance communications  with a debt of near rs 45 000 crore  is currently undergoing strategic debt restructuring. the group has until december to agree on a resolution to its debt payment. it had hoped to close its transactions with aircel and brookfield by september-end.  gtl infrastructure bought aircel’s telecom towers in 2010 for about rs 8 000 crore  but growth for telecom companies came to a halt due to the 2g airwave allocation scam that led to revoking of 122 licences. gtl infra entered into corporate debt restructuring  then strategic debt restructuring under which banks converted loans to shares  and hope to recover their money through the sale of the company. </div></div>