<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>twelve companies  including private-equity giants bain capital and warburg pincus and three private-sector insurers  have submitted bids to acquire india's largest standalone health-cover provider star health & allied insurance that is being valued around rs 6 000 crore.  two people close to the development told et that india's largest health insurer icici lombard; hdfc ergo  a joint venture between mortgage company hdfc and european insurer ergo; and cigna ttk  a joint venture between american insurer cigna and the chennai-based ttk  were in the race along with the two global privateequity funds. november 6 was the deadline for submitting the bids.  "icici lombard  cigna ttk  hdfc ergo  bain capital and warburg pincus are among the 12 companies that had submitted bids for the business " one of the two persons cited above said."there has been significant interest from many local and international investors to buy a stake in star health."  investment bankers kotak investment bank  mizuho securities and evercore partners are managing the bidding.  the sale process is part of the plan to offer exit options to the current investors of star health.they include local funds sequoia capital  icici venture  and tata capital  and global private equity investor apis.    these four funds  along with oman insurance company  own 70 per cent of star health  while the rest of the equity is held by dubai-based investor eta trading. star health managing director v jaganathan  who built the company from scratch  owns a marginal stake.  both bain capital and warburg pincus said that they do not have any com ments to offer. v jagannathan said he does not know anyt hing about the companies who had submitted bids. icici lombard and hdfc ergo did not respond to a query  while cigna ttk health sa id that it does not comment on market speculation.  "health insurance more so retail health is the biggest opportunity in the general insurance sector " said shashwat sharma  partner and head of insurance at kpmg india. "the government's spend on health insurance has not gone up in the past 10 years  and the majority of the people are self employed and pay medical expenses out of their pockets."  last year  apis partners and icici venture purchased 15 per cent stake in star health and allied insurance for rs 320 crore  valuing the company at rs 2 100 crore. some private-equity funds have been active in the insurance sector  with warburg pincus purchasing a 12.13 per cent stake in icici lombard from canada's fairfax.  the canadian firm  which had invested around $2 billion in india in assets as diverse as airports and financial services  is planning to build an independent general insurance company godigit.  star health had reported a growth of 48 per cent in gross written premium at rs 2 962 crore in 2016-17  up from rs 2 000 crore in the previous year  according to the data compiled by insurance regulatory and development authority.  the company  founded in 2006  writes policies on personal accident  medi-claim and overseas travels. it has a capital base of rs 1 050 crore  and reported a net profit of rs 117 crore in 2016-17  down from rs 136 crore in 2015-16. </div></div>