<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: valuation gaps and disruptive reforms  such as the rollout of the uniform producer levy and strict property and bankruptcy laws  seem to have minimized the number of deals in india’s capital-intensive hospitality industry  with hotel owners busy streamlining operations before committing to new transactions.  “essentially  most hotels have debt on their books. with the insolvency and bankruptcy code kicking in  if you are going to be taking over a hotel  then you also assume the liability as far as the debt is concerned ” said siddharth thaker  managing partner at prognosis global consulting. “a wrong acquisition will hurt your balance sheet. with other developments like gst  people are essentially taking a little bit more time to get adjusted to the new regulatory environment.”  in the past quarter  thaker’s clients have been extremely conservative with prospective deals. “nobody wants to pay a premium and they are clear about acquiring hotels at valuations they want ” he said.  in the past one year  the operating and regulatory environment has witnessed disruptive changes by way of the currency swap  the gst  property laws  and bankruptcy legislation aimed at aiding loan recoveries in the stressed banking system.  rajarshi dutta  lead  asset management at consulting firm acquisory  said asking prices are still very high.  “prices are not justified by the operational matrix of hotels. owners and developers are also busy streamlining and understanding the long-term effects of gst and rera. so decisions are not being made ” he said.  experts believe more distressed hotel assets could be on the block this year after the insolvency and bankruptcy code kicked in  but very few deals are being completed. “the gap between business valuation and real-estate valuation is so huge that finalising a deal is a big problem. very few clean deals have transpired ” said gulam zia  executive director  advisory retail and hospitality  at knight frank india.  mandeep lamba  managing director of hotels and hospitality group at jll india  which was the transaction advisor for the samhi premier inn deal this year  said that deal activity has become very niche. gurgaon-based samhi hotels bought british chain premier inn’s india portfolio for about rs 200 crore.  “it is not aggressive as of now… deals are happening at a niche level. the active ones are fairly active but there are very few players involved in deal making ” said lamba. </div></div>