<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: mahindra & mahindra and ford motor co. announced a strategic alliance to explore cooperation on products  technologies and distribution including future mobility programmes  connected vehicle projects and electrification of cars among other areas. this marks a reunion of sorts after the two ended a joint venture in 2005.  teams from both companies will work together for a period of up to three years  at which point the alliance will be reviewed  they said. the us company entered india in partnership with mahindra & mahindra in 1995 to produce the ford escort but in three years decided to go solo.  still  the experience emboldened mahindra & mahindra to develop the scorpio and other vehicles  which transformed the company's image from that of a predominantly farm-oriented tractor maker and utility vehicle maker to an suv manufacturer for urban markets.    the new tie-up with ford could facilitate mahindra’s expansion into global emerging markets  the company said in an exchange filing. the accord raises the prospect of shared investment  economies of scale  technology transfer and greater efficiency in conventional areas such as product development  sourcing and distribution besides the emerging growth areas mentioned above. challenges facing the automotive industry globally have been triggered by the accelerated rise of new technologies  sustainability policies and new models of urban shared mobility  said mahindra managing director pawan goenka. mahindra sees the need to anticipate new market trends  explore alternatives and look for ways to collaborate even as it competes and builds powerful synergies that will allow rapid exploitation of the new opportunities  he said.  “today’s announcement builds on the foundation laid through our past partnership with ford and will open opportunities for both of us ” goenka said.  ford may partner mahindra on electric vehicles and the indian company could gain from its counterpart’s expertise in big suvs and pickup trucks for evolved markets  especially the us  something that company would like another crack at  analysts said. mahindra got into a legal wrangle with us distributor global vehicles  forcing it to abandon plans of entering that country’s pickup truck market in the mid of 2012. mahindra could help ford with india distribution and after-market services.  the us company has invested more than $2 billion in india and  despite having been in the country for two decades  has a sub-optimal market share of less than 3%. most of its india output is directed toward the overseas market  enabling ford to utilise 60% of its installed capacity of 440 000 units. “ford is committed to india and this alliance can help us deliver the best vehicles and services to customers while profitably growing in the world’s fifth largest vehicle market ” said jim farley  ford executive vice president and president of global markets. </div></div>