<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: the government has lined up 18 companies for strategic sales and has asked their administrative ministries to identify land that can be bundled and put on the block to make the deal more attractive. the companies in which the government proposes to sell stake and hand over management control include dredging corporation of india  central electronics ltd.  scooters india  hindustan prefab ltd. and pawan hans ltd. the government has set a record disinvestment target of rs 72 500 crore in this financial year  of which rs 15 000 crore is to come from strategic sales. total disinvestment proceeds in the current financial year  as of november 1  were rs 30 185.67 crore  according to the website of the department of investment and public asset management. scooters india  a manufacturer of three-wheelers  has over 150 acres of land in lucknow. hindustan prefab  which builds civil engineering structures and supplies pre-fabricated components for the building industry and indian railways  occupies 28 acres of prime land in new delhi. “not all the land available with these firms will be put on sale. each firm and its administrative ministry will identify land that maybe required for business expansion and only that will form part of the whole package ” said a finance ministry official aware of the developments. the remaining land will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle set up by the administrative ministry. the government has invited other state-run companies to take over six of these central public sector enterprises. “this will go simultaneously with the proposed consolidation in central public sector enterprises. there are some firms such as nbcc which are interested in taking over firms such as projects & development india ltd. and engineering projects (india) ltd. ” the official said. in such takeovers  all the real estate assets held by the company will form part of the transaction  the official said. “in some cases  we have already hired asset valuers and the process of inviting expressions of interest from potential bidders will start soon ” he said. other companies in which strategic sales have been planned include hindustan latex ltd.  goa shipyard  triveni structurals and hec ltd. the government will also launch the proposed bharat-22 exchangetraded fund on november 14  with an initial issue size of rs 8 000 crore  plus an option to retain oversubscription. the fund comprises 22 stocks including blue chips such as oil & natural gas corp.  indian oil corp. and state bank of india — all state-run companies — along with partial stakes in axis bank  itc and larsen & toubro  which the government holds through the specified undertaking of the unit trust of india.</div></div>