<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: dalmia bharat cement  india’s second-oldest manufacturer of the primary building material  has entered into an agreement with the piramal bain resurgence fund to bid for debt-laden binani cement ltd  two people with direct knowledge of the plan told et. piramal bain resurgence fund  the corpus dedicated to stressed assets  and dalmia bharat will likely bid for binani’s 6.25-million-tonnes-per-year plants in rajasthan  with the national company law tribunal (nclt) seeking to resolve the debt issue at binani. piramal bain resurgence fund  floated by billionaire ajay piramal and american private equity fund bain capital credit  and new delhi-based dalmia bharat entered into the agreement last week. dalmia bharat  which has formidable cement capacity in the eastern and southern parts of the country  is looking to replicate its success in lime-stone deficient northern india  where rajasthan is the primary source of supplies to rich agrarian states of punjab and haryana  and the more affluent neighbourhoods of western uttar pradesh. “the purchase of the rajasthan unit can cater to the entire northern and western markets ’’ said one of the two persons cited above. binani cement has debt of about rs 3 400 crore and lenders are seeking an enterprise value of about rs 6 000 crore. piramal enterprises  dalmia bharat  and binani cement declined to comment either on the arrangement or the likelihood of bids. lenders dragged binani to the insolvency court after it failed to repay its dues for the past few years. the company  a profitable one until a few years ago  was hit by rs 700 crore royalty penalty from the rajasthan government on its limestone mines in the state. et had reported that india’s largest cement maker ultratech cement  shree cement  nirma  jsw cement and my home industries have expressed interest in bidding for the plants. the company is attractive to suitors seeking to expand their business in northern and western india and the middle east  where binani has a presence. the company’s india cement plants are located at two districts of rajasthan – sikar and sirohi. besides  it is present in china and dubai. vijaykumar iyer  partner at deloitte touche tohmatsu india llp  was appointed the interim resolution professional for binani cement.</div></div>