<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>chennai: hero group company  hero electronix has made its foray into the internet-of-things (iot) space with the acquisition of gurgaon-based enterprise iot startup zenatix. the terms of the deal have not been disclosed. "as our team drives innovation  we are exploring acquisition and partnerships with start-ups like zenatix  who are combining technology and data driven insights for sectoral disruption. while our iot solutions are for enterprises to begin with  we are getting ready to venture into the consumer segment ” said ujjwal munjal  founder director  hero electronix. founded in 2013 by iit-delhi engineers  zenatix has built its own proprietary iot stack  which includes hardware  cloud-based software  and big-data analytics. zenatix’s current customers include banks  atm management companies  retail chains and quick service restaurant outlets. they help improve efficiency and control in their operations. hero electronix plans to invest between rs. 300 crore and rs. 400 crore to expand into iot space by 2020 and targets rs. 1000 crore from the business. “while we use iot and big data analytics to introduce automation for retail and bfsi customers  through our partnership with hero electronix  we aim to expand these solutions to new areas and segments. the indian iot market is still at a nascent stage and with hero electronix as our partner  we aim to scale up to the next level ” said rahul bhalla  ceo  zenatix: formed in 2015  hero electronix is the group's venture into the new technologies space. sine its inception  the company has entered the semiconductor engineering sector with investment in tessolve semiconductor  and has acquired mybox  a set-top box manufacturing company. with the acquisition of zenatix the group will foray into the iot space and plans introduce new solutions to its existing clients and enter new segments. hero electronix also plans to widen the reach of zenatix by foraying into global markets – countries such as se asia with similar challenges as the india market.the startup claims that its advanced machine learning (ml) based model analyses over 10 million data points every hour and delivers value in areas such as predictive maintenance and consumer experience analytics.zenatix' solutions enable customers connect their physical assets like ac  refrigeration  lighting  atm machines  dvrs over the internet so that these assets can be controlled and monitored centrally in an automated fashion. the solution delivers energy efficiency and business compliance for its bfsi and retail customers. the company helps customers identify inefficient equipment that either leads to inflated power consumption. zenatix primarily works with banks with a minimum 1 000 branches and large retail chains with at least 100 stores.</div></div>