<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: kumar mangalam birla flagship hindalco is gearing up to mount a multi-billion dollar bid to acquire aleris corp. from its private equity owners  said several people aware of the development.  this follows talks of more than a year between china zhongwang holdings ltd  the country’s biggest supplier of processed aluminium  and the cleveland-based based aluminium parts maker having floundered on heightened us national security concerns.  despite repeated extensions  the deadline for exclusive negotiations between both parties got over on october 13  paving the way for others to enter the fray  said the people cited above.  analysts expect hindalco and its us arm novelis are likely to face competition from global peers including norwegian giant norsk hydro  japan's uacj corp. and even activist hedge fund elliot management-backed arconic (formerly alcoa) in a bidding war that may see the target’s valuation exceed $3.1billion. investment banking sources said hindalco has already had informal discussions with global banks for financing support.  “the chinese have set a valuation benchmark... a lot of work has already been done by the birla team internally. they have been looking at growth options and this is a great target for them. but with the ongoing bilateral talks  there was no way they could’ve formally started work ” said one of the executives cited above. “expect that (to happen) in the coming days.”  satish pai  managing director of hindalco  and an aditya birla group spokesperson declined to comment. the aleris spokesperson was unavailable for comment. sources close to the us company said even though the deadline is over  there is no clarity yet on the future course of action.  “it’s deemed to be dead but having negotiated for so long  both sides will still try to salvage the situation. we have seen so many extensions but increasingly it seems difficult ” said a new york-based investment banker closely following developments.  strategic rationale an acquisition of aleris will help hindalco and novelis consolidate further in the can and auto segments  the margins for which have been improving steadily in recent times. novelis has been keen to increase its auto shipments to 25% of the total to tap rising demand for aluminium sheets used for automotive purposes.  “we have become a preferred choice for automotive aluminium sheets. as more and more automakers turn to aluminium solutions to produce the next generation of vehicles  we are actively looking at opportunities to increase capacity to support our customers and reinforce our leadership position in this growing market ” novelis chief executive stever fisher said in august after the company reported a 16% increase in shipments of automotive products in the june quarter.  pai has said the company is considering expanding novelis’ auto lines in the us and china to tap rising demand from the auto sector. as of fy17  while the auto segment accounted for 18% of novelis sales by volume  aluminium cans contributed 60% and specialties the rest.  aleris has invested $350 million in expanding its automotive sheet body capacity  which is due to be commissioned in 2017. that gives the acquirer an edge  with sales getting a boost once shipments get going. the financials of hindalco and novelis have improved in the past quarters  sharpening appetite for growth opportunities organically and through acquisitions.  hindalco’s net debt to ebitda ratio at the end of june quarter stood at 3.3  down from 3.7 in march. the company wants to lower this to 3 by end of march 2018 with a net debt of rs 15 000 crore. a ratio of 4 or less is considered to be healthy. to achieve this target  the company has been repaying portions of its debt in 2017.  by august  the company had already prepaid rs 7 800 crore  and in his speech at the annual general meeting of hindalco  chairman kumar mangalam birla had said that rs 1 100 crore will be prepaid in september. the theme of deleveraging has also been evident in subsidiary novelis having refinanced a total of $4.3 billion in debt in fy17. earlier this may  the can and auto sheet major sold 50% of its stake in its ulsan facility to japan's kobe steel for a consideration of $315 million  fetching more cash to bolster financials.</div></div>