<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>bhubaneshwar: jsw techno projects management  a promoter-owned company of the jsw group  will acquire a 49% stake in odisha-based iron ore pellet manufacturer brahmani river pellets (brpl)  a move that coincides with its efforts to expand its footprint to the eastern part of india by acquiring stressed steel-making assets.the company said on friday that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire the stake from aryan mining and trading corporation (amtc) and the acquisition is subject to approval of the competition commission of india (cci) and other conditions set out in the definitive agreement.a jsw spokesperson said that jsw techno projects management is a promoter company and the acquisition is not being done by jsw steel.in odisha  where sajjan jindal also hopes to build a 12-million tonne greenfield plant  brpl has a 4-million tonne pellet plant  a 4.7-mt beneficiation plant and a 220-km slurry pipeline connecting the two. it is a fully-owned subsidiary of amtc whose majority stake (73%) has been held by former british commodities trader stemcor group. kolkata-based sanjay saraf family holds the remaining 27% and has been engaged in a bitter dispute with moorgate industries (formed after the demerger and restructuring of debt-laden stemcor in 2015) over brpl and its debt.also  the saraf family had recently entered into an understanding with thriveni earthmovers  one of india’s largest mining contractors operating many iron ore mines in odisha. a new entity  thriveni pellets  was registered on november 13  2017. naman saraf  vice president of amtc  is one of its directors.calls made to saraf and thriveni’s management went unanswered. however  two people close to the development while speaking on condition of anonymity said the new entity could also play a role in the future of brpl as and when amtc and moorgate settle their dispute  which is now being heard by the kolkata high court.last month  10 months after signing a definitive agreement to acquire brpl in a rs 900-crore deal  tata steel walked away. in a bse filing  tata steel blamed amtc for delays by in “obtaining necessary regulatory approvals” from the reserve bank of india (rbi)  settlement of proceedings under fema by the directorate of enforcement and approval from income tax authorities" and for the failure of the deal.stemcor’s indian assets have been up for sale since past five years. and practically  every leading indian steelmaker has been reported to be interested in these assets. amtc held rights to iron ore mines which fed brpl’s facilities  but those rights were non-transferable under earlier mining laws.this turned away some suitors  but not sajjan jindal. his company  jsw steel  has said it wants to set up a 12-million tonne plant at the site of the shelved posco project in odisha. its rs 55 000-crore plans submitted to the odisha government include a 900-megawatt captive power plant  a captive port and slurry pipeline from odisha’s iron ore districts to the coast  and a 32-million pellet unit.</div></div>