<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: bank of baroda purchased the 51% stake held by foreign partner pioneer investments in their joint venture asset management company in a transaction aimed at complying with regulatory requirements. financial terms of the deal  which made the state-run bank the sole owner of baroda pioneer asset management company  weren’t immediately known. an ownership shuffle for baroda pioneer was inevitable after french asset manager amundi purchased pioneer investments. amundi already has a stake in sbi mutual fund and the local rule of one-sponsor  one-fund allows a foreign asset manager to hold a stake in only one fund house. under securities and exchange board of india guidelines  a sponsor is an entity that establishes an asset management company. “it was a regular business transaction; the new owner could not have held stakes in two amcs. as sebi regulations don’t allow it (holding stakes in two fund houses)  we decided to buy the stake ” a bank official said. “we remain firm on our focus to sell non-core assets and there is no deviation from that strategy ” he added  suggesting that the lender will eventually look for a new investor in the unit. the official spoke on the condition of anonymity as he isn’t authorised to speak to the media. bank of baroda did not respond to an email seeking comment. amundi holds a 37% stake in sbi mutual fund. the french firm  which manages more than $1 trillion of assets worldwide  had in december last year announced that it would buy pioneer investments for $3.7 billion in cash. baroda pioneer operates out of 40 locations. the fund house managed average assets of  11 023 crore in august. in fiscal 2017  it registered a profit of  1.07 crore  compared with a loss of  5 crore the year before. the finance ministry had asked public sector banks to sell non-core assets as a way to generate funds for growth and provision against a growing pile of bad loans. in august  bank of baroda said it planned to raise as much as  2 000 crore during the fiscal year by selling non-core assets. “it is clear that bank of baroda will start hunting for a new sponsor as it wants to offload some of its non-core assets ” said an investment banker who did not wish to be identified. baroda pioneer is yielding good returns on investment for the bank “but it does not have any stellar products nor do i think that the company is very aggressive in selling its products ” said a fund industry expert. “icici raised rs 14 500 crore in just the bharat 22 etfs and baroda pioneer has an aum of rs 11 000 crore — you can clearly see the difference. they need some very good fund managers to improve performance of their funds.” abhenav khettry  managing director of financial services advisory firm vyana wealth  said most small mutual funds had merged with big players as it was increasingly becoming difficult for them to survive on their own. “we have seen some smaller mfs like motilal oswal or edelweiss mf  who have tried to carve their niche in specific products like pms or aifs. mutual fund as an industry is increasingly become commoditised and smaller players will have to build their area of expertise.” </div></div>