<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>bain capital is buying the world’s largest sea plane fleet operator  trans maldivian airways (tma)  from blackstone for around $500 million (rs 3 525 crore) to cash in on booming high-end leisure travellers flocking to the indian ocean archipelago. bain has roped in chinese conglomerate tempus group  which runs businesses including tour operator shenzhen tempus global travel holdings and tbrj funds  as a partners for the acquisition.the two sides signed the agreement on sunday. et broke the story in it's website on monday morning hours before a formal announcement. once completed  this will be the biggest exit by blackstone across asia  giving the private-equity firm a 4.8-fold return on a four-year investment. its india team used to manage this investment. "bain and its partners will end up owning 100% of the company. the other minority shareholders and the local founders are staying on with a small stake ” said an executive in the know of things  speaking on the condition of anonymity as the talks are still in private domain.blackstone had acquired control of two seaplane operators  maldivian air taxi and trans maldivian airways  in 2013 for $98 million and subsequently combined the two. it currently operates 48 aircraft  carrying 9.6 lakh passengers in 1.2 lakh flights annually. the fleet picks up tourists from male’s velana international airport and ferries them to 60-plus resorts that are scattered around the nearly 1190 coral islands that together make up the island nation.the sea planes have slender pontoons or floats  mounted under the fuselage  which helps them land on and take off from water.blackstone is believed to have made a total investment of $115-$120 million in the business in debt and equity. since earlier this year  it had been in the market after receiving feelers from various strategic asian buyers and funds. “it is a profitable business and makes around $70-80 million ebitda ”said an official in the know. hsbc is an adviser to the transaction."tma is well-positioned to capture the growing tourism demand in the maldives. leveraging bain capital private equity’s successful track record in the leisure industry  we look forward to working with the current management team  employees and customers of tma to continue to grow and support the industry.” said jonathan zhu  md  bain capital private equity said. "we were able to apply our expertise as operators to help trans maldivian expand and grow into one of the largest companies into the maldives and the world’s largest seaplane operator.” - amit dixit  head of blackdtone private equity in india added. the maldives has attracted investment from chinese online travel agencies and private equity firms seeking to cater to chinese holidaymakers  who account for the largest group of arrivals in the archipelago known for its pristine blue lagoons  white beaches  ring shaped atolls and extensive reefs. the maldives is one of the few countries where chinese tourists are automatically issued a visa on arrival.last year  the total number of tourists to the islands reached 1.29 million  compared with a population of fewer than 400 000  according to government data.boston-headquartered bain has been putting its dollars behind consumer  luxury and leisure transactions around the world and also in asia in recent years. in 2015  it invested $422 million to buy japanese hot springs  spa and hotel operator ooedo-onsen holdings  a move to capitalise on a tourism boom in the country ahead of the tokyo 2020 olympic games. a year earlier it also joined hands with british billionaire richard branson to start virgin voyages cruise lines in the caribbean.“this is a high-margin game. this is the only operator for the entire group of islands that together make up the maldives. and this is luxury leisure travellers who spend anything from $500-5 000 per night. so they don’t mind paying extra for the ride. the business is a profitable one ” said an executive familiar with the company.in india  bain has largely been focussing on financial services and industrials in companies like l&t; finance and hero motocorp having recently made the largest pe transaction deploying $1.2 billion in axis bank  the country’s third largest private lender. its only consumer retail-focussed bet  lilliput  was a write off.</div></div>