<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: strides shasun and eris lifesciences said on saturday that they entered into a definitive agreement for sale of strides’ india branded generics business to the later for an aggregate cash consideration of rs 500 crore.  strides’ india branded generics business comprises of a portfolio of more than brands in the domains of neurology  psychiatry  nutraceuticals and gastro. as per the agreement  eris will acquire the marketing and distribution rights of the products in india while strides will retain the global rights for these products  both the companies said in a joint notification to the exchanges.  et reported in its saturday’s edition that eris has agreed to buy strides’ domestic formulation business for around rs 500 crore.  the india branded generics business being divested by strides had sales of rs 181 core fy 2017  the statement said.  the acquisition is eris’s fourth and the largest buyout in the last 18 months. with this  the company will be among the top ten companies in the central nervous system (cns) segment.  since inception in 2007  eris has focused on the “chronic segments” of cardiology and diabetology. eris had forayed into the cns segment only recently. this acquisition cements eris’s position in the top three chronic segments  it said in the statement.  the transaction is expected to get concluded by nov 30  both the companies said.  mape advisory group and tatva legal acted as advisors for strides in the deal  while ey india and shardul amarchand mangaldas & co advised eris lifesciences on this transaction.  founded in 1990  strides manufactures pharmaceutical products  over-the-counter drugs and nutraceuticals. its products include softgel capsules  hard-gel capsules  tablets and dry and wet injectables. it sells products in multiple therapeutic categories such as central nervous system (cns)  cardio vascular  women's health  diabetes  pain management  vitamins  minerals and supplements. its flagship brand renerve is the second largest brand in its segment  according to the firm’s website.  grown mostly through acquisitions  strides has made a series of buyouts including cns business of erstwhile ranbaxy and brands portfolio of johnson & johnson  besides taking a controlling stake in probiotics company medispan  which was a part of the chennai-based shriram group.  founded in 2007  eris lifesciences  which recently concluded its public offer  manufactures  and sells pharmaceutical products in chronic and acute therapeutic areas. it has a portfolio of various brands in the cardiovascular  anti-diabetics  neurology  chronic respiratory  chronic pain  vitamins  gastro-intestinal  anti-infectives  gynaecology  hepatoprotectives  hormones  hematology  dermatology  anti-obesity and injury healing therapeutic areas.</div></div>