<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: a few weeks after signing mou to sell its direct-to-home (dth) business  anil ambani-owned reliance communications (rcom) said tuesday it will sell the dth business to pantel technologies and veecon media & television.  rcom said it has entered into a binding share purchase agreement with the two companies for sale of its subsidiary reliance big tv limited (rbtv)  which owns reliance digital tv.  “pursuant to this transaction  the buyers will acquire the entire shareholding of rbtv with business on an “as-is  where-is” basis ” rcom said.  on november 6  rcom had announced signing of a binding mou for sale of subsidiary reliance big tv (rbtv) to veecon. prior to that  rcom had even decided to shut down the business effective november 18.  rcom said that the existing dth license of the dth company is being renewed  and the required bank guarantees have already been submitted to the information and broadcasting ministry.  “the transaction ensures that all 1.2 million customers of big tv shall continue to enjoy uninterrupted services. it also ensures continuity of employment for approximately 500 employees of rbtv ” the company said.  incidentally  both pantel technologies and veecon are new delhi based companies with no background of media or distribution business.  according to vijender singh  cmd  pantel technology  it is an information technology and communication devices company  which sells innovative tablet pc(s) under the brand name of penta t-pad in the indian  south-east asian  gcc and african markets.  pantel technologies has collaborated with mauritius telecom—the telecom service provider of mauritius—bringing digital computing solutions to the mauritian and african markets at affordable prices.  veecon  meanwhile  is a new delhi-based company  which was earlier involved in producing industrial gases.  rcom said the transaction will help reduce the liability of unsecured creditors  benefitting all stakeholders  including lenders and shareholders of the company.  the deal is subject to requisite approvals from licensors  regulatory authorities (ministry of information & broadcasting) and lenders of rcom. </div></div>