<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: steel  energy and cement conglomerate jsw group  metals and commodities giant vedanta  the mumbai-based lodha group and deutsche bank are among the 18 companies that have shown interest in buying jaypee infratech in full or in part  said people close to the discussions. a clutch of asset restructuring companies is also in the fray  they added.the committee of creditors met on friday to discuss the expressions of interest from the prospective bidders.jsw group is in talks to tie up with jaypee associates  the promoters of jaypee infratech  for the bid in what many would consider as a baffling decision given jsw chairman sajjan jindal’s recent comments about the desirability of promoters bidding for their former companies.jindal has been tweeting over the past few days that promoters who have lost their companies to the bankruptcy courts should not be allowed to bid for them again under the resolution process. tagging finance minister arun jaitley and law minister ravi shankar prasad in his tweet  jindal had said that doing so will amount to misuse of the insolvency and bankruptcy code (ibc) by the promoters.last week  he had also asked for companies referred to the national company law tribunal (nclt) to be suspended from trading on the bourses as speculation makes valuation expensive for an investor.“there is an in-principle interest for jaypee infratech and we are in talks with the promoters ” a senior executive at the jsw group told et on condition of anonymity. “however  it is at a very preliminary stage and it is too early to say anything ” he added.the nclt allahabad bench admitted jaypee infratech on august 10 after idbi bank referred the company for defaulting on debt of rs 526.11 crore. jaypee’s is one of the most important of the 12 cases referred to nclt by banks as close to 32 000 homebuyers in various jaypee projects are still to get possession of their apartments. the homebuyers had challenged nclt’s decision to usher the company into resolution proceedings as they believed it would leave them homeless and without compensation.following this  the supreme court asked the case proceedings to be stopped on september 4. but in its order on september 11  the apex court restored the proceedings and directed the resolution practitioner (rp) to take over management of the company. the top court also asked the company to deposit rs 2 000 crore with the sc registry by october 27. but the company pleaded with the top court to reconsider its decision  arguing that no company has such large reserves of “liquid cash”. when the company asked the sum to be brought down to rs 400 crore  the apex court  calling the amount puny  redirected jaypee to deposit at least rs 1 000 crore by november 13.the parent company has been going all out to salvage the real estate arm. in october  it moved the sc seeking permission to sell its holding in the 165-km yamuna expressway that connects agra with the national capital region. it said a prospective buyer is willing to pay rs 2 500 crore which can be used to pay the rs 2 000 crore it had been asked to settle. however  the top court refused to entertain the request.</div></div>