<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kolkata: the prospect of ultratech cement taking over the bankrupt binani cement became brighter after the national company law appellate tribunal (nclat) advised on tuesday all related parties to settle the dispute amicably. this is in line with what the national company law tribunal (nclt) had advised in an order earlier.the committee of creditors will meet on wednesday to discuss the proposal by binani cement's parent binani industries regarding the rs 7 266-crore ultratech offer. a top source close to the development told toi that the lenders to binani cement are likely to take a closer look at binani industries' plea.on tuesday  a two-member bench of the appellate tribunal headed by justice s j mukhopadhaya said that it gave the related parties the liberty to reach a settlement and approach the appropriate forum for an approval. the appellate tribunal was hearing a petition filed by binani industries  which holds over 90% in binani cement.binani industries had moved the nclat against the resolution professional of binani cement  alleging that its order was not followed while declaring a successful plan for the struggling cement maker. there was an allegation relating to disclosure too. binani industries also asked the nclat to declare the meeting of the committee of creditors held on march 14 as "null and void".earlier  the nclt had suggested in an order that - in the larger interest of all stakeholders - the possibility of having a harmonious settlement be considered. "talk of settlement  if any  is at the liberty of the committee of creditors " the order said. the creditors' panel has to get back to nclt on april 9 with its opinion on the offer. however  a source in dalmia bharat cement (dbc) said it still believes that an outof-court settlement is not under the purview of the insolvency and bankruptcy code (ibc)  2016. dbc has already written to the creditors against an attempt for having an out-of-court settlement. it said that such a development would violate the binding agreement between the creditors' panel and dbc.toi had earlier reported that the final offer of dbc  which was voted on and approved by the committee of creditors  is over rs 6 900 crore - substantially higher than what was conceived as its offer of around rs 6 400 crore. the offer was subsequently filed by dbc's resolution professional to the nclt. the revised offer of ultra-tech was for rs 7 266 crore.</div></div>