<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div> german drug and agrochemicals major bayer today announced sale of selected crop science businesses to basf for usd 7 billion as part of its strategy to complete acquisition of us biotech major monsanto.  however  the company said that this deal will have no impact on bayer's india business.  "in light of the planned acquisition of monsanto  bayer has signed an agreement to sell selected crop science businesses to basf for eur 5.9 billion " bayer said in a statement.  the assets to be sold generated net sales of about eur 1.3 billion in 2016.  separately  germany-based basf -- the world's third- largest crop chemicals manufacturer -- said it has signed an agreement to acquire significant parts of bayer s seed and non-selective herbicide businesses.  the transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and the successful closing of bayer s acquisition of monsanto.  "we are taking an active approach to address potential regulatory concerns  with the goal of facilitating a successful close of the monsanto transaction " said werner baumann  chairman of the board of management of bayer ag.  bayer said it will continue to work diligently with the relevant authorities with the aim of closing the planned acquisition of monsanto by early 2018.  bayer had in september 2016 agreed to take over the american seeds major monsanto for usd 66 billion  the assets to be sold include bayer's global glufosinate-ammonium business and the related libertylink technology for herbicide tolerance  essentially all of the company s field crop seeds businesses  as well as respective research and development capabilities.  "the seeds businesses being divested include the global cotton seed business (excluding india and south africa)  the north american and european canola seed businesses and the soybean seed business " bayer said. the transaction includes the transfer of relevant intellectual property and facilities  as well as more than 1 800 employees primarily in the us  germany  brazil  canada and belgium. </div></div>