<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: capital international is picking up a 40% stake in interglobe technology quotient (itq)  a travel reservation and technology services arm of interglobe enterprises that owns indigo airlines  for $200 million  people directly involved in the transaction said.  capital  one of the largest global investment management firms with assets worth around $1trillion  pipped pe peersta associates  cvc and china's fosun group to seal the deal  earlier on friday.  itq distributes international centralised reservation systems and helps set up  maintain and operate data processing centres. it is also a distributor of travelport in six markets in the asia-pacific region  including india and sri lanka. travelport is a travel commerce platform that aggregates content from the global airline  hospitality and travel operator industry and processed travel spending worth $90 billion in 2014. itq distributes travelport's global reservation system products galileo and worldspan to as many as 12 500 travel agencies. it also provides customised accounting software solutions to clients in the aviation and travel sectors. the company reported revenue of rs 400 crore and recorded operating profit of rs 170 crore for fiscal 2016.  the company  headed by anil parashar  has a network that spans over 500 cities with 23 offices reaching out to over 12 000 agency locations. itq emerged from a rough patch when the domestic aviation industry went through turbulent times a couple of years ago  which saw the grounding of airlines like kingfisher. itq is a high-margin business. rahul bhatia and his father kapil bhatia together owns a 63 per cent stake in the company. the remaining 37 per cent is held by the exiting investors standard chartered pe  dbs and credit suisse who came on board in 2008 making a rs 560 crore investment. while the investors get an opportunity to cash out of their eight year old investment  the bhatia family too will trim their stake. parashar  ceo of itq declined to comment.  mails sent to capital did not get a response till press time.    moelis and citi were the advisors in the sale.  et in its may 12th edition first reported that capital was the frontrunner to acquire a 65% stake in the company.  with around $5 billion invested in 80 companies in the emerging markets through six emerging markets funds  capital group has been active in india in the last few years. so far  the fund has invested in companies such as it services company mindtree  manipal global education  deccan aviation that manages now defunct kingfisher airlines  and multi screen media (sony pictures). capital's recent investments in india include stake buys in domestic pharma majors intas and mankind  together worth around $320 million. its emerging market private equity portfolio includes china's taxi-hailing firm didi chuxing and african tower company eaton.  this year  the firm exited its investment in l&t; finance with internal rate of returns of around 4-5%. the fund had come in as an anchor investor along with malaysia’s khazanah group during the pre-ipo round of the finance arm of engineering behemoth l&t.; capital's private equity arms typically picks up large minority interests in established  fast growing businesses. </div></div>