<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: the merger of tata teleservices’ wireless business with bharti airtel will not face any delays from the government’s end  if both companies follow due process  a top official in the telecom ministry said  adding that the situation of the telecom sector which is ailing under a rs 5 lakh crore debt  will improve after ongoing consolidation is completed.  “they (airtel and tata executives) came to meet (about the merger). if they follow the process  there will be no delay from our end ” said telecom minister manoj sinha on wednesday  on the side lines of an event where it lowered the price of calls to rs 1 a minute  for army and para military units posted on border areas.  the sunil mittal-led telco said last week that it was merging the consumer mobile businesses of loss-making tata tele across 19 circles -- 17 under ttsl and 2 under tata tele maharashtra ltd (ttml) - with itself  on a debt-free and cash-free basis. the market leader would get tata’s entire spectrum holding  of which 40% is liberalised  and will take on a small portion of the outstanding spectrum liability to be paid to the government.  tata sons’ chairman n chandrasekaran and sunil bharti mittal met the minister  soon after closing the deal  which marked the exit of tata group from india’s telecom services business amid aggressive competition intensified by the entry of reliance jio last september – which offered free calls and low-cost data to consumers.  the merger announcement was the second such after idea cellular and vodafone india  who announced their $23 billion amalgamation in march this year. yet more consolidation was seen by reliance communications and aircel that was announced in september last year  but talks fell through earlier this month. the anil ambani company has a debt of over rs 45 000 crore  while tata teleservices’ outstanding debt is over rs 31 000 crore.  “we have our eye on the sector. telecom sector has been a success story and will continue to be. it (sector situation) will improve after consolidation. if needed  the government will intervene as it has done in the past ” he added  when asked about the relief the sector would get after recommendations of the inter-ministerial group (img) were approved by the telecom commission.  the apex decision making body at the department of telecom last month approved extension of time-period for the payment of spectrum bought in auctions by telcos to 16 years from the current 10 years. it also agreed to lower interest rate charged over penalties imposed on service providers from 14% to 12%.  on wednesday  the minister announced a cut in calling rates to rs 1 per minute from thursday  offered by state run carrier bsnl to soldiers and officers of various army and para-military units like crpf  bsf  bro and itbp  deployed in areas of j&k;  northeast including meghalaya  and himachal pradesh  sharing borders with china and pakistan.  soldiers in these areas use the service offered by bsnl which was till now priced at rs 5 a minute. a monthly plan of rs 500 for using the service has also been waived off. “the government will compensate bsnl about rs 3-4 crore a year  on account of the loss due to the cut in tariffs ” sinha added. </div></div>