<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: intas pharmaceuticals  backed by temasek and chryscapital  has inched closer to arguably the biggest cross-border buyout by an indian pharma company  emerging as the front-runner to acquire mallinckrodt’s generics drug business in the us for $1.5 billion  said people close to the ongoing discussions.  a successful transaction will give intas — the largest privately held pharmaceutical company in india with an annual turnover of over $1 billion and a valuation almost twice that — access to the attractive therapeutic segment of controlled substances or opioids that have steep entry barriers and high margins.  this comes as us president donald trump has declared opioid addiction a public health emergency in the us and drugmakers have found themselves under scrutiny for allegedly contributing to the crisis.  from an initial shortlist of five that had seen private equity firms compete with chinese competitors  only two were considered for the final rounds of negotiations. the present discussions are largely centred around indemnity clauses  said the people cited above.  any buyer would want protection against potential damages from future lawsuits and penalties beyond the three years currently applicable  said one of the persons in the know  adding that the final bid will be dependent on that.  “the higher the indemnity period  the (more) bids are likely to go up ” the person said. “a lower timeframe will bring it down accordingly  as the business risks go up.” intas is believed to be competing with a pe consortium in the last leg. its identity could not be independently verified.  earlier this year  uk-based mallinckrodt hired investment bank credit suisse group ag to run a sale process for the unit  expecting as much as $2 billion from the divestment. the move was to help pivot the specialty pharmaceutical maker toward higher-margin branded drugs and complete a gradual shift away from its original focus on generic drugs and nuclear imaging.  “as a practice  we will not comment on market rumours or speculation ” a mallinckrodt spokesperson told et. intas too declined to comment on the development.  jpmorgan is believed to be advising intas. the ahmedabad-headquartered company promoted by the chudgar family is said to have tied up financing from indian and foreign banks before submitting its binding offer last month.  fatal addiction mallinckrodt’s generics unit has been a drag on the rest of the company  in part because some of its products include opiate-based pain killers  which have fallen out of favour with doctors due to their addictive potential.  the us opioid crisis claimed more than 64 000 lives in 2016 and at least 91 americans are estimated to die daily from overdoses. in september  missouri attorney general josh hawley expanded the opioid marketing investigation to seven companies  including mallinckrodt. the company in april had agreed to pay $35 million to resolve us probes into its monitoring and reporting of suspicious orders of controlled substances.  it is believed another indian suitor aurobindo pharma had pulled out over the heightened risk. “the final divestment decision and approvals will be as much of a political one as it will be commercial. moreover  this is not a distress sale  so if the seller does not get a satisfactory offer  it can pull the plug as well ” said another executive in the know.  shopping binge to be sure  the business is still a big draw.  “the controlled substance segment only has a few global players like teva or sun pharma and the margins are a high 30% ” said another person with knowledge of the matter. “so  this has high interest despite the noise.”  intas has been scouting for acquisition targets to expand its global business with ambitious targets. it pipped aurobindo last year to scoop up teva’s actavis uk ltd and actavis ireland ltd units for £600 million. but this will be its boldest bet yet  being the largest outbound pharma deal by an indian company  exceeding lupin ltd’s acquisition of gavis pharmaceuticals llc and novel laboratories inc. for $880 million in 2015  if the deal consummates.  started four decades ago by pharmacist hasmukh chudgar  intas is run by the three sons of the octogenarian founder—binish  nimish and urmish. the chudgars own as much as 85% of intas  while the two investors mentioned above hold the remaining 15%. binish is the driver of growth and m&as;  nimish focuses on operations  supply chain and organisation building. urmish  an oncologist himself  specialises in r&d;  having initiated the biotech foray. its fy17 top line is estimated at $1.2 billion which includes only three months of sales from the actavis units. it clocked a $160 million profit after tax on an ebitda of $260 million.  intas has around 300 out-licensing agreements with long-term supply agreements and marketing setups in six major western european countries—the uk  netherlands  germany  spain  france and italy. as a result of its r&d; efforts  the company has 3 000-plus marketing authorisations in the european market and a strong product pipeline for ‘day one’ product launches. its european arm accord healthcare focuses on growth-oriented therapies  such as oncology  pain management  cardiology  neurology  nephrology  urology  psychiatry  diabetology and gastroenterology. it had more than 5 500 product approvals as of april 2016 and its sales  marketing and distribution network covers more than 70 countries. </div></div>