<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>bengaluru: global credit rating agency experian is making a big bet in the indian financial products sector  making investments in competing companies bankbazaar and policybazaar's sister arm paisabazaar.  the global agency has led a $30million round in bankbazaar. it is also set to close an investment in paisabazaar  according to sources.et could not ascertain the size of the paisabazaar investment.  both bankbazaar and paisabazaar had tied up with experian to offer free credit scores to customers.  "this seems to be a masterstroke by experian to capture bulk of the online business for credit reports  especially since cibil is big offline " an industry member aware of the development said.  "by investing in both players  experian can get a growth of credit reports and lock players which it thinks will grow. it is not purely financial. they have done this in other markets and have invested in two or more players in the same space so that they grow with whichever company grows " the source cited above said.  the series-d brings bankbazaar's total funding to $110 million. experian will join investors such as amazon  sequoia  eight roads (fidelity growth partners) and walden international on bankbazaar's board.  "the investment is more a strategic partnership  since experian is the largest credit bureau in the world. this is a step-up round for us  since we still had money left from the 2015 round " bankbazaar ceo adhil shetty told et.    with this new funding  bankbazaar will bring more customers on board through marketing  and will push its paperless products  shetty said. bankbazaar will hire 400 more people by the end of the financial year and will also focus on expansion to new markets after singapore.  bankbazaar's funding comes on the heels of policybazaar raising rs 500 crore earlier this month from global asset management firm wellington management  pri vate equity firm true north and idg ventures india among others.  both companies are looking at international expansion with the funding. experian did not respond to queries about investment in paisabazaar.  "we believe that consumer adoption of fully digital experiences coupled with paperless access to financial products will push customer acquisition 10x by 2020. with ecommerce shoppers growing significantly over the next few years  companies with paperless technology platforms  are well-positioned to leverage the latest trends in consumer technology and help millions of indians gain access to the formal banking and finance products  further enabling financial inclusion for millions of underserved consumers " said ben elliott  ceo  experian asia pacific on the bankbazaar investment. </div></div>