<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>bengaluru: japan's largest conglomerate mitsubishi is in talks to pick up a minority stake in greyorange robotics  a warehouse automation startup  based out of singapore and gurgaon  according to two sources familiar with the development.  the investment  pegged at less than $20 million  could also see participation of greyorange's existing backer tiger global and is being structured through a convertible note which could value the company from at least $300 million to as high as $500million.  "the company plans to raise a smaller round right now and then go for a larger round of financing by early next year " said one of the sources mentioned above. mitsubishi is one of the clients of greyorange as well. greyorange competes in the warehousing automation space with players like amazon's kiva and is one of the rare hardware startups to come out of india.  the company has already raised around $30 million from tiger global and blume ventures  and its last round was announced in mid 2015.after this  the company was looking to raise another round of funding  but valuation mismatch has led to a delay in the transaction  according to a venture capital investor who has evaluated the transaction.  a potential investment structured through a convertible note would help grey orange  which is registered in singapore  overcome valuation issues. a convertible note is a form of short-term debt that converts into equity  typically in conjunction with a future financing round  primarily delaying final valuation till the next round is raised.  greyorange has been scaling up well  according to the two sources  with revenues of close to $40 million for the coming year.  when contacted  greyorange ceo kohli declined to comment on the fundraising. email sent to mitsubishi did not elicit a response at the time of filing the article.  greyorange offers 'butler' and 'sorter' to its clients. greyorange butler helps in automated inventory storage and replenishment  picking and combining orders in fulfilment and distribution centres. the sorter  as the name suggests  helps in sorting of orders in warehouses and distribution centres. it routes packages based on weight  volume  destination or any predefined parameter.  the company is headquartered in singapore and has offices in india  hong kong  japan  germany and dubai. it has a research and development centre in gurgaon. "robotics has emerged as one of the most lucrative startup segments globally as far as funding is concerned. over $2 billion was invested in b2b b2c robotics startups worldwide last year. right from picking and sorting in manufacturing industry to staff assistants in the retail industry to advisors in banking  robots are starting to play a critical role in business value chain " said praveen bhadada  partner  digital transformation practice at zinnov. "indian startups in the robotics space are following the global evolution  albeit slowly." </div></div>