<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: three months after an aborted attempt to merge with hdfc life  analjit singh-controlled max life insurance has entered into formal negotiations with south india-based lakshmi vilas bank (lvb) to increase its stake in the mid-sized lender to up to 10%  said people aware of the matter. the discussions  though preliminary  are seen as important as a successful conclusion could lead to a higher stake in a niche private sector bank.  formal communication has been exchanged between both sides  said the sources  who spoke on condition of anonymity. “max already has a significant exposure in the bank. the new investment will be more of a strategic one. this will make max the single-largest shareholder ” said one of the sources close to the development.  the promoters only hold 9.03% in the widely held bank  with public shareholders — including foreign portfolio investors and financial institutions — holding the remaining 90.97%. at current valuation  the deal should cost max around rs 150 crore. however  preferential allotments typically happen at a premium.  the bank was founded in 1926 by seven businessmen from karur  tamil nadu  under the leadership of vsn ramalinga chettiar to cater to the financial needs of people in and around the region.    from being a community bank  lakshmi vilas has emerged as a big private sector lender.  proceeds from the transaction  if it happens  will be used for the immediate capital requirements of the bank  funding its expansion and technological transformation.  lvb had tried to place its shares with financial investors and private equity funds in the past. it had planned a share sale to institutional investors  but that could not take off. “this deal  if it happens  will make things easier for the lvb management. max will come (on board) as a serious strategic investor and that can attract bigger long-term investors with deep pockets ” said an investment banker working with a large us firm. lvb managing director partha mukherjee declined to comment on what he termed market speculation.  responding to et’s queries  the max life spokesperson said  “as part of our routine business  we consider various investment options in equity and debt to maximise returns for our policyholders.  our investment decisions are based on long-term growth prospects of the industry and the company in particular  and we are positive on private banks. as a matter of policy  we do not comment on specific investments.”  listed max financial services (mfs) is the holding company for max life. mfs currently holds 69% in max life  its japanese partner mitsui sumitomo owns 25% and axis bank owns 4.9%. the remaining 1% is held through management esops.  max life is the country’s fourthlargest private life insurer with a 7.9% market share and assets under management of rs 47 756 crore as on september 30  2017.  transforming self “if capital is the issue  it can always be raised ” said r sreesankar  head-institutional equities  prabhudas lilladher. “we need to see continuity in the (new) management. lakshmi vilas bank will take some time to emerge in its new avatar  changing its old culture ” he said.  lvb shares have remained flat in the past one year. they closed at rs 155.30 on thursday on the bse  compared with rs 154 a year ago. during the same period  bse bankex  the stock market barometer for the sector  has shot up 31%  aided by large banks.  lvb’s net profit jumped 42% in 2016-17 to rs 256 crore compared with rs 180 crore a year earlier.  regional banks such as karur vysya bank and lakshmi vilas bank have done well so far as they have gained market share in their home state of tamil nadu  though at a modest pace  despite intense competition from new private sector lenders  nonbanking financial companies (nbfcs) and small finance banks  icici securities said in a report last month.  the proposal comes at a time when the indian banking sector has become the top choice of longterm global investors including bulge-bracket sovereign and pension funds. et had reported on tuesday that us buyout giant bain capital is in talks with axis bank to pick up a 5% stake. meanwhile  carlyle group has invested $300 million in the cards business of state bank of india. earlier this year  a group of investors  including renuka ramnath-led multiples pe  uk’s development finance institution cdc and hedge fund steadview capital  had pumped $260 million into rbl.  the financial sector has received three out of top four private equity investments so far in 2017  according to data compiled by venture intelligence  an industry tracker.</div></div>