<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: reliance infrastructure agreed to hold exclusive negotiations with adani transmission ltd for the proposed sale of the anil ambani-led company’s integrated power generation  transmission and distribution business in mumbai  long considered its crown jewel. the announcement came a day after reliance infrastructure signed a binding agreement to divest several power transmission assets to the adani group.  the mumbai business is estimated to be valued at rs 13 000-14 000 crore ($2.15 billion) inclusive of debt  said people aware of the matter. in a regulatory filing on tuesday  reliance infrastructure said it had “entered into a period of exclusivity until january 15  2018  in relation to discussions for the proposed sale of its integrated business of generation  transmission and distribution of power for mumbai city to adani transmission.”  the proposed transaction is subject to confirmatory diligence  definitive documentation and customary approvals. “accordingly  there can be no certainty that a transaction will result. further announcements will be made at an appropriate stage ” the company said.  the mumbai business has 3 million customers  making it the country’s largest private sector integrated power utility  entailing 1800 mw of distribution along with generation facilities  besides an underground network of over 1 000 km. the distribution franchise is nine decades old with the licence valid until august 2036.  adani is believed to have stepped up after hyderabad-headquartered greenko’s offer lapsed a few days back  said sources aware of the development. greenko  india’s largest renewables company  had submitted a “time-bound  non-binding offer” a fortnight ago  hoping to clinch the deal. greenko is backed by singapore’s gic and abu dhabi investment authority (adia).  according to one of the sources mentioned above  adani is believed to have received a rs 9 000-crore funding commitment from lenders led by state bank of india. this  however  could not be independently verified.  reliance infrastructure intends to utilise the proceeds of the proposed transaction entirely to reduce debt and further strengthen its financial position to tap mega growth opportunities in defence and engineering  procurement  construction (epc) in the infrastructure sector. its debt was rs 25 800 crore at the end of fy17.  old negotiations for sale according to adani transmission  the group’s listed power transmission arm  a deal would “strengthen its footprint in the power transmission sector while marking its maiden foray into the power distribution sector”. the company’s stock jumped 10%  the most in five months  to rs 193.25  while reliance infrastructure rose as much as 3.5% to rs 494 after the announcement.  adani’s city gas distribution joint ventures operate in ahmedabad  ludhiana  thiruvananthapuram and chandigarh.  in november 2015  reliance infrastructure entered into a non-binding pact to sell a 49% stake in the business to public sector pension investment board of canada. those exclusive negotiations lapsed  following which the company engaged with other potential suitors. psp is said to have made a brief reappearance later on in the talks. hong kong-headquartered clp also held discussions with reliance to explore a merger of operations but then pulled out  said a company official on condition of anonymity.  the mumbai circle licence  along with the generation  transmission and distribution assets  is to be carved out from reliance infrastructure’s electrical division and transferred to a subsidiary before being sold  said executives briefed on the matter.  on monday  reliance infrastructure had announced signing a binding term-sheet agreement with adani transmission for three operational transmission projects — western region system strengthening scheme b  wrsss c and parbati koldam transmission co. ltd   a 74:26 joint venture with power grid. adani transmission will acquire 100% ownership in wrsss b and c and 74% of pktcl. the wrsss b and c transmission projects and the stake in pktcl were valued at rs 1 000 crore each. </div></div>