<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: paynear is buying singapore-based goswiff for around $100 million (more than rs 650 crore) in a deal that will provide the indian financial technology company quick access to 20 new markets.  paynear specialises in payment gateway and is founded by a group of serial entrepreneurs who sold e-billing solutions as part of a $480 million deal four years ago.  goswiff is owned by swiss billionaire and currency ink maker maurice amon  and is worth nearly eight times paynear’s equity value. the acquisition will give the indian payments firm a quick entry to south east asian  middle east  commonwealth of independent states and eastern european markets. an announcement is expected as early as tuesday.  the deal  estimated at a little short of $100 million  has been signed  said an industry expert who is aware of the deal.  the companies confirmed the acquisition  but didn’t comment on the financial terms.  “we will leapfrog indian technology to a world stage and shorten our expansions time by over two years ” said prabhu ram  managing director paynear.     hyderabad-based paynear creates a merchant ecosystem providing point of sale devices and enabling online portals for digital payments for businesses that want to go digital. while its primary customer is the small and medium sized merchant  as a payment service provider licence holder the company also partners banks and currently counts axis bank and rbl among them.  paynear could  for example  provide a small shop with a point of sale to swipe a credit card and a mobile application to generate an invoice. the shopkeeper can accept cards or online payments that will be routed to a paynear temporary account and settled with the bank after deducting transaction fees as per the regulated timeline.  goswiff is a white-labelled technology platform that develops applications  software and builds business logic for companies or financial institutions in the digital payments space.  “although there is potential for every client  sme is the real opportunity for paynear to explore in these market ” said goswiff chief executive mark patrick.  paynear has the ability to also “fiscalise” or process transaction-based tax payments such as goods and services tax or any cess directly from the payment made to the merchant  said prabhu  who is also the group chief executive. in countries like russia  it is mandatory to do this immediately for every transaction  for which such a solution is needed  he added.  the company can tap more than 30 banks and financial companies that engage goswiff’s service and takeover the payment and settlement for a fee. “we count at least one of the top two customers in each of the 20 markets we are present in ” said patrick.  “now  with merchants almost being forced to use digital payments  we are planning to provide a holistic solution that can generate invoices  catalogue  create customer records and even help with tax filing ” said prabhu.  in the current financial year  paynear expects to record revenue of rs 110 crore with a marginal net profit. goswiff had revenue of $22 million (rs 144 crore) last year but hasn’t turned profitable yet.  typically  a white label service is valued around five times its revenue  while a payment partner managing the entire suite commands 10 times the multiple  said an investment banker. point of sale equipment and service is typically a cost-for-financial institution which narrows the number of touch points that will be serviced.  the current share capital of paynear  largely raised from friends and family  is $6 million. founders in goswiff  chaired by maurice a amon  on the other hand  have invested $50 million so far.  paynear is financing the acquisition with a loan from its promoters. at a later stage  the founders may redeem the debt if the combined entity is able to tap capital markets  said the industry expert. otherwise  they would have the option to get shares for the loan amount.  consark advisory services and collin n g partners were the financial and legal advisers.  a buyout isn’t new to prabhu or the paynear cofounders — priti shah  anil bharadwaj  ravi kiran  krishna kishore and maulik shahof.  prabhu was a cofounder of e-business solutions and the rest of the group were its founding team members. the company was bought over by european payments platform ogone in a cash-and-stock deal.  prabhu finally exited the company when ogone was sold to belgium-based ingenico for $480 million in 2013. at the time e-business solutions accounted for around a quarter of ogone’s revenue.  the payment to goswiff by paynear has been completed  said the industry expert. </div></div>