<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: bharti airtel has entered into a definitive agreement with millicom international cellular under which airtel rwanda limited will acquire 100% equity interest in tigo rwanda limited  thus consolidating the rwandan telecom market by putting airtel has a strong no 2 operator in rwanda. the consideration for the transaction is based on approximately 6x ebitda multiple  payable over two years  the carrier said in a statement on tuesday. the agreement is subject to regulatory and statutory approvals.“airtel has taken proactive steps in africa to consolidate and realign the market structure in the last few remaining countries where its operations are lagging on account of lower market share and presence of too many operators. airtel and tigo have already merged their operations to create a strong viable entity in ghana. today  it has taken yet another important step to acquire tigo rwanda to become a profitable and a strong challenger in a two-player market " said sunil bharti mittal  chairman  bharti airtel. the move comes within days of mittal admitting that it's africa investment was 'a bit rushed' and should have been done with a little more due diligence. over the years airtel has been solidifying its market position to become a key player in the continent with in-country acquisitions. in the past  airtel acquired assets in uganda (warid) and congo b (warid)  kenya (yu mobile) and consolidated operations in ghana (millicom). in a recent interview with et  mittal said that the company would look at consolidation in countries like kenya  rwanda and tanzania through mergers  acquisitions or both  even as the overall africa business was turning a corner."we are also committed to the long term viability of our operations in two other countries i.e. kenya and tanzania  to ensure that in 2018 all our 15 operations in africa start contributing positive margins and cash flows towards a healthy and profitable airtel africa " mittal added. under the agreement  customers of a airtel and millicom in rwanda  will benefit from a wider network  affordable voice and data services  and superior customer care. the existing customers of tigo rwanda will join airtel’s global network  which currently serves over 370 million customers across 17 countries. raghunath mandava  md and ceo  airtel africa  said  “the acquisition reinforces our commitment to the rwanda market and is a significant step towards creating a stronger presence in the country. it will create synergies with our existing business and help boost operational efficiencies in the market."on completion  the proposed acquisition will undergo seamless integration  both on the customer as well as the network side  and further strengthen our market position  he added.in the quarter ended september  airtel africa reported a 2.8% increase in revenue to $782 million  where the operating profit margins improved by 9% on-year for the quarter. the region reported a profit of $48 million as opposed to a loss of $91 million in the same quarter a year before. at the end of september  it had total debt of rs 91 480 crore.</div></div>