<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: flipkart is in talks for a strategic partnership with ticketing platform bookmyshow in a move that will see it build out its services and transaction offerings against paytm. the talks  which are at a preliminary stage  may see the tiger global-backed ecommerce player pick up a significant minority stake in bookmyshow  said two people aware of the discussions.  a partnership with market leader bookmyshow will give flipkart  which is also building out its payments platform phonepe  a play in the ticketing market and a more frequent use case for its service to customers. the talks  if they materialise  will pit flipkart against netflix  hotstar  amazon prime video in an increasingly contested online entertainment market in india.  both flipkart and bookmyshow did not respond to email queries sent by et. the development was reported first in et's online edition.  "flipkart along with bookmyshow and phonepe is an equal competition to paytm's business. the next step for flipkart would be to become a video platform like amazon prime video (and include content)  so they are well positioned to go down that path " said ashwin suresh  founder of pocket aces  which creates the popular filter copy series.  flipkart's partnership with bookmyshow  to introduce an entertainment offering  is the latest among the top 3 ecommerce players moves to build out integrated service verticals beyond their bread and butter ecommerce marketplace.  through local finds  amazon prime video and amazon now  the seattle-headquartered giant has been steadily building its hyperlocal and services offerings. paytm too has been building its armour in a similar direction through its recent buy of deals and discovery platforms little and nearbuy as also its talks with travel platform via.com  et had reported last month. it also picked up a stake in events platform insider earlier this year.  "flipkart and amazon will both want to build multiple service capabilities across platforms for their current customer base and in that context  multiple such strategic partnerships will be likely as they look to build out services (beyond just the ecommerce marketplace) " said an investor in flipkart who did not wish to be named.  india's ecommerce giants moving to build their service vertical follows a model that china's alibaba has set in motion. the chinese ecommerce giant along with its payments arm ant financial (alipay) has invested in chinese online-to-offline platform for services meituan-dianping. amazon prime video has earmarked rs 2 000 crore for india alone as it is building a strong stack of original shows along with partnerships with leading production houses to offer a host of movies on its platform. beyond amazon  netflix too is getting big on the indian market and will launch about four to five original content shows in the next six months alone  et had reported on saturday .  on its part  bookmyshow has been beefing up original content offerings on both  its video and recently launched audio entertainment vertical jukebox. bookmyshow is focusing on local language content for both its video and audio platforms to penetrate better in tier-ii and -iii towns  a move that will prove to be vastly beneficial for flipkart given its attempts to serve deeper in the smaller towns.  the company had raised rs 550 crore last year led by stripes group in a deal which valued it at over rs 3 000 crore. its other investors include reliance owned network18  and venture capital firms saif partners and accel india. </div></div>