<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: private equity firms kkr  bain capital and ta associates are vying for a 12-13% stake in the supermarkets and hypermarkets arm of the diversified aditya birla group.  the firms may invest about rs 650 crore in aditya birla retail (abrl)  which houses the supermarket arm more. the potential deal pegs the value of the loss-making grocery retail business at rs 5 000 crore  said people familiar with the talks.  the funds could cover capital expenditure requirements of the business for 2-3 years  according a memorandum shared with a select group of investors.  an abrl spokesperson  responding to et’s queries  said the company does not comment on market stories.  spokespersons for kkr  bain capital and ta associates declined comment.  billionaire kumar mangalam birla is seeking a financial partner as he is constrained from pumping in further capital into the retail business due to commitments in the telecom and core industrial businesses  people familiar said.  privately held promoter entities of abrl including aditya birla group holding companies kanistha finance & investments pvt and rkn retail pvt collectively own 99.99% of the company.  the transaction could attract interest from other private equity investors such as warburg pincus and us-based cerberus capital management  the people said.  the business has achieved “store-level ebitda breakeven” and is “well positioned to capture the rapid growth in the organised food and grocery retail space ” officials told the select group of investors.  abrl is expected to achieve operational profitability within 15 months  during which it will add 131 stores  according to projections shared with the investors.  the company has been controlling costs over the past two years  including shutting unprofitable stores and implementing a freeze on lateral hiring.  the stake sale discussions are led by pranab barua  who heads the retail and apparel vertical of the group.  more operates 532 stores and plans to double the count in the next four years  targeting revenue of rs 10 000 crore. it has 2.4 million square feet of retail space countrywide.  more has a larger concentration and share of the organised retail trade in the southern states of karnataka  andhra pradesh and telangana  where more than half its stores are situated.  “the grocery retail business has wafer-thin margins and can slip into the red at a store level very quickly  so one is essentially banking on the scale that the business has the potential to acquire and the economies that can drive it ” said an executive at one of the firms in the fray to invest in the business.  abrl is adopting a go-deep-not-wide strategy for its grocery retail business and will focus on core markets such as hyderabad  bengaluru  chennai  pune  kolkata and the national capital region  which are located close to its distribution centres. it also plans to expand its online grocery retailing business.  more clocked sales of about rs 4 000 crore in the year ended march 2017. its debt increased to rs 5 936.21 crore in 2015-16 from rs 5 286.36 crore a year ago  according to company filings.  “the food and grocery segment is very attractive from an investor’s point of view because of the scale one can achieve and the capacity for the business to absorb capital ” said harminder sahni  founder of wazir advisors  a retail consulting firm. “d’mart’s ipo has set a valuation benchmark that has resulted in heightened investor appetite and as companies like more turn profitable  they are bound to attract significant investor attention.” </div></div>