<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: jet airways and air france-klm signed an agreement that will potentially give the indian carrier unrestricted access to europe and north america and could  according to experts  reduce the scope of its existing partnership with etihad airways. jet’s chairman naresh goyal didn’t rule out the possibility of a stake sale in future  although he and other top executives clarified that no discussions on a strategic partnership were currently on. etihad has a 24% stake in jet that it bought in november 2013. the “metal neutrality” pact will see the airlines aligning inventory and networks and selling one another’s tickets linking sales and distribution networks and frequent flyer programmes. they will also work together extensively on cargo operations. the deal will lead to a 40% rise in india-europe passenger traffic for the carriers  executives said. goyal called it a “very good” partnership  adding that both sides had been “flirting for a long time without getting married ” referring to talks that have been going on for more than a year. air france-klm chairman jean-marc janaillac said  “air france-klm and jet airways are launching the first cooperation agreement of its kind on the india-europe market— one of the markets at the heart of the group’s strategy for the coming years.” at a later stage  the airlines will look at synergies on maintenance and joint fuel purchases  goyal said. air france-klm is one of the world’s biggest providers of aircraft and engine maintenance services. “when you are married  you go all the way ” he said  extending the metaphor without giving details.‘virtual merger’ when asked about the tie-up maturing into a strategic partnership  as had been in the news for months  goyal said  “you don’t know what happens in the future.” klm royal dutch airlines ceo pieter elbers said the two sides had come a long way and there would be the “right steps at the right time.” et first reported on the partnership in september last year. elbers told et in october that the two sides were close to an alliance with a focus on metal—or aircraft—neutrality and cargo. us laws relate metal neutrality to the term “virtual merger” or a situation where partners work as closely as possible—such as treating each other’s planes as part of their own fleet--without actually merging at a strategic or balance sheet level. this also entails partners having full knowledge of each other’s inventory pricing under a concept known as “antitrust immunity.” the agreement marks the reemergence of jet’s ambitious growth plans independent of strategic partner etihad airways  experts said. at the time of the stake sale  jet had said it would gain access to about 400 global destinations via codeshare agreements with etihad airways and its partners. codeshare agreements accounted for 1 800 daily passengers in the last financial year at jet.jet-etihad ties goyal denied that jet-etihad ties would be hit  saying that the combine carries the most passengers between india and the gulf. he said the partnership will continue and not be impacted by the new tie-up. jet airways ceo vinay dube said  “it’s not a question of competition. there is plenty of traffic and at the end of the day the consumers will decide. there’s plenty of growth to be had for everyone.” elbers affirmed this and acknowledged the ties between jet and etihad. “there’s a strong link between etihad and jet and there is no issue with that ” he said. “there’s also a commercial cooperation between klm and etihad and again if we look through the market size of india and the number of traffic flows  it is so huge. so  it is a great opportunity even for etihad in terms of what we are doing. it’s not against  but compatible with what’s going on there. we are a happy family.” aviation experts view the new development differently. “the partnership with etihad will increasingly become less strategic and relevant ” said kapil kaul  ceo  south asia  at capa-centre for aviation  a sydney-based consultant. “the strategic irrelevance of the etihad partnership is reflected in the fact that the jet network (will be) competing with etihad more aggressively now ” he said  adding that jet’s partnership with air france-klm will make it more competitive.‘message to etihad’ mark martin of dubai-based martin consulting said the agreement was a “potent message to etihad that naresh goyal is charting his own path of ambitions and isn’t dependent on anyone.” the jet-air france-klm pact  according to a statement  will create a network connecting 44 indian cities to 106 european destinations. air france-klm has a transatlantic venture with delta air lines  which will give jet access to 200 locations in the us. the three airlines currently have 64 weekly flights between india and europe and fly 1.2 million passengers between the regions  clocking a combined revenue of $1billion. senior executives said the airlines expect to increase passengers by 40%.</div></div>