<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai/new delhi: softbank has entered the fray to pick up a stake in bundl technologies  which owns and operates food delivery startup swiggy  according to three people aware of the development.  the japanese investment major is not alone in its pursuit of a stake in the bengaluru firm  which has held talks with other chinese and indian strategic investors as well.  softbank is discussing an investment of $200-250 million for a significant minority stake in swiggy  according to the people cited above.  the talks  if successful  could peg the company’s pre-money valuation at $600-650 million  the sources chinese internet giant tencent  which has backed flipkart  is likely to co-invest  if the negotiations fructify  sources said. tencent may invest another $50 million in swiggy  if the latter takes up the offer  taking the proposed deal to $100 million  people aware of the developments told et.  jack ma’s ecommerce giant alibaba  along with its payments arm ant financial  is also in talks to explore an investment in the naspersbacked firm  pitting it against rival tencent in the growing indian internet ecosystem.  softbank declined to comment on what it termed as “speculation”. tencent  alibaba and flipkart had not responded to et’s queries till press time.  while swiggy declined to comment on specific talks  a representative for the company said  “swiggy garners continuous interest from investors due to our market leadership position  strong growth and financial performance. we remain focused on delivering exceptional value to consumers  and will comment on fund-raises at the opportune time.”  alibaba and ant financial’s investment discussions with swiggy come at a time when chinese investors are in talks with the food-tech company’s rival zomato to close a $200-million funding round  potentially valuing the info edge-backed firm at $1.1 billion.  alibaba and ant financial had explored a possible merger between swiggy and zomato  eyeing an investment in the combined entity. but the talks failed owing to differences in business alignment and valuation metrics  as reported by et earlier this month.  renewed interest this renewed interest in the two leaders in india’s food-tech sector  which had seen a steep decline in investments in 2016  reflects an interesting shift with both alibaba and tencent betting big in the country.  the online food delivery market in india grew at 150% year-on-year in 2016 with an estimated gross merchandise value (gmv) of $300 million in 2016  according to data from redseer. the space has also seen the entry of global technology giants such as ubereats and google’s areo  both of which are discounting heavily.  it is not yet clear if softbank  with its $100-billion vision fund to invest in startups globally  will align its potential investment in swiggy with another investor or lead an independent round.  industry watchers and experts are of the view that consolidation amongst strategic global investors in key consumer internet verticals is only natural and will follow similar moves in the online retail space. consolidation will also help big players distribute risk better and pare losses in the indian internet market  which has been a rather slow one when it comes to exits for investors.  “the investor groups are common  not just in india  but globally. if  for example  they have three separate investments in three verticals  there is a chance that the investor can end up losing money. therefore  there is a need for consolidating the investments ” said sanjeev krishan  partner at pwc. </div></div>