<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>ebix inc  a supplier of software and ecommerce services to the insurance  financial  e-governance and healthcare industries  has emerged as the frontrunner to acquire debt-laden digital education company educomp solutions  which has filed for bankruptcy.ebix trumped a bid by little-known family office boundary holdings  which manages wealth for london-based investor rajat khare  a former educomp director.atlanta-based ebix made an all-inclusive offer of rs 325 crore for the online education services provider  which represents almost 11% of the rs 3 000 crore that educomp owes to a clutch of banks.the offer and accompanying resolution plan will be put to vote on february 17. at least 75% of the creditors have to approve the plan for it to be presented to the national company law tribunal for clearance  as per india’s insolvency laws.pricewaterhouse-coopers is managing the auction of the company on behalf of the banks. mahender khandelwal  head of restructuring services at bdo  is the resolution professional for educomp.spokespersons for pwc and bdo declined comment in response to et’s queries. ebix was yet to respond to emailed queries till presstime sunday.state bank of india  axis bank  icici bank  standard chartered  international finance corporation and french development finance institution proparco are among creditors to the company. educomp  promoted by shantanu prakash  filed for bankruptcy in may last year. a handful of creditors had sought commitments from ebix to honour corporate guarantees worth rs 1 200 crore given by educomp to them for loans disbursed to group companies. ebix declined to provide such a commitment at a meeting on friday.the creditors had also sought an audit report to review if there were any anomalies in transactions entered into by the company. it was not immediately clear if all the creditors were satisfied with the report.ebix acquired digital payments platform itzcash from zee group last year for rs 800 crore. it also owns travel booking portal via.com. the atlanta-based company provides on-demand software and ecommerce services to the insurance  financial  e-governance and healthcare industries.“an acquisition of educomp could give ebix access to a network of schools  help it add a new vertical and cross-sell other products such as its payments platform to the education sector ” danish faruqui  a partner at l.e.k consulting’s global education practice  told et on january 28.educomp specialises in k12 (kindergarten to class 12) content library with 3d multimedia educational content. it has 350 pre-schools under the name little millennium  45 k12 schools and 63 test preparation centres.(a previous version of this article stated that vidya mandir classes was a subsidiary of educomp and slated for admission into insolvency proceedings. vidya mandir classes ceased to be a subsidiary of educomp in july 2016. icici bank has filed a petition to initiate insolvency proceedings with respect to vidya mandir classes but the petition has not yet been admitted by the national company law tribunal  according to the company’s lawyers. the error is regretted. this clarification is published for the information of our readers)</div></div>