<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kolkata|mumbai: indusind bank is close to acquiring india’s second-largest microfinance company bharat financial inclusion  with both sides signing an exclusivity agreement on a possible deal. a successful conclusion to negotiations will give the private bank greater access to rural businesses and opportunities to earn a higher return from bottom-of-the-pyramid customers. investors cheered with both stocks rising on monday.et had reported on february 3 that indusind had begun merger talks with bharat financial.the buyout  if finalised after due diligence  will be through a stock swap in which indusind may have to dilute as much as 12% of stock  based on current prices  analysts said. both indusind bank and bharat financial  formerly sks microfinance  remained silent on the valuation  saying they are still working on it. however  according to a person with knowledge of the matter  bharat financial has been valued at rs 1 050 a share. credit suisse and morgan stanley are the advisors in the transaction. the microlender founded by vikram akula would provide access to 6.8 million customers. “the synergy of the merger is underestimated ” indusind bank chief executive romesh sobti said. “the merger will give priority sector benefits  lower cost of fund by about 100 basis points  boost liability side of business of the bank  and provide cross-sell opportunities.” a basis point is 0.01 percentage point. if it goes ahead  this will be the largest acquisition in the microfinance space after a spate of takeovers ofsmall microlenders by private sector banks such as idfc bank and kotak mahindra bank. indusind  which has turned around under sobti’s leadership  would swell by around 1 400 bharat financial branches and its asset book expand by nearly rs 10 000 crore to rs 1.26 lakh crore going by june 2017 data. “we have a few more weeks to work on the definitive agreement. the embedded value of the bank’s business will gain from the merger ” sobti said. indusind rose 5.6% to rs 1 790.65 for a market capitalisation of rs 1.07 lakh crore  while bharat financial climbed 3.34% to rs 967.25 for a market value of rs 13 351 crore at the close on the bse. that’s more than twice the microlender’s value at its lowest point during the past year. “we believe that it will be eps accretive for indusind bank given that bharat financial is expected to grow at cagr (compounded annual growth rate) of 40% and deliver 4% roa (return on assets) and over 20% roe (return on equity) in coming years ” said digant haria analyst antique stock broking. “there could be another 5% to 10% upside in the price of bharat financial  depending on the final swap ratio.”the microfinance company  in which a morgan stanley fund owns 6.74% but lacks majority promoter support  would gain from promoter backing if the acquisition takes place. it will also escape from the vagaries of regulatory prudence such as restrictions on margins and reliance on bank loans at high interest rates. “we can now be a full-fledged financial organisation ” bharat financial inclusion managing director mr rao said. “we will enjoy operating efficiency as a bank and gain from the dip in cost of fund as and when the merger happens.” demonetisation  which was among the reasons for a delay in the process  dented the microfinance business with many customers dependent on the cash economy. bharat financial had reported losses in the last two successive quarters due to higher provisions and bad loans being written off as borrowers defaulted on loan repayments in the wake of the note swap. “bharat financial had gone through the period very nicely and its collection ratios improved to 99% since january. we have thought through all these scenarios ” sobti said.</div></div>