<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai | new delhi: who will buy into future group first — amazon or alibaba group  it seems to be advantage amazon at the moment with future group founder kishore biyani having met jeff bezos in the us two weeks ago to discuss a possible alliance with the indian retailer which controls nearly a third of the country’s organised food and grocery market. biyani has  however  also travelled to china to meet alibaba officials in the recent past to study its model and see if that can be replicated in india.“future group is planning to bring a strategic investor into the company while amazon is keen to have a strong omnichannel presence in india  especially in its nascent grocery retailing segment ” said one of three people aware of the matter. “both founders met at amazon's seattle headquarters and discussed the indian retail market and how both can partner to have a win-win strategy.”biyani’s choices are limited as there are few global players with the money and the hunger to expand in india  one of the persons said. from amazon’s point of view  there are few retailers in india that tick the relevant boxes  the person said.investment through fpi routefuture group has three things going for it — a successful offline retail model that combines food and non-food profitably  the largest retail footprint across india  and its strength in apparel  general merchandise  luggage and footwear. amazon may sense a larger threat  especially to its india grocery play  if alibaba group or softbank buy into future group  possibly tilting the balance in favour of biyani.future group and alibaba didn't respond to emailed queries. amazon said it doesn’t comment on speculation.india doesn’t allow overseas investment in multi-brand retail but amazon can invest in a retail company through its investment arm  the route through which it has picked up a 5% stake in shoppers stop  an analyst said. the arm is registered as a foreign portfolio investor (fpi) that can acquire up to 10% in an indian entity as a single firm. an indian company  however  can dilute up to 49% stake to multiple fpis.the previous government had allowed foreign companies to acquire up to 51% in indian retail companies that sell goods under multiple brands with the caveat that state governments will have the final say in this matter. most state governments opposed the move  making the policy a nonstarter.amazon and alibaba dominate their home turfs but the chinese company is also strong in southeast asia  where it spent more than $2 billion to take control of lazada  a five-year-old online shopping company based in singapore and doing business in six countries.both are increasingly developing their international businesses  especially in india  where amazon has pledged to spend $5 billion and alibaba has invested about $500 million for stakes in paytm — india’s largest mobile payments platform — and its ecommerce affiliate  paytm mall. it recently invested about $300 million in online grocer bigbasket.but a physical presence is key to the indian market and both online giants have been investing in brick and mortar stores overseas. amazon last year launched the checkout-free amazon go store in seattle and also bought whole foods for $13.7 billion  a deal that helped the online giant get a network of about 500 outlets in the us and uk. that also gave it access to the grocery segment  allowing convergence with its own subscription pantry delivery service. in the past two years  alibaba has acquired major stakes in retailers such as suning commerce group co.  lianhua supermarket holdings co. and intime retail group co.india opportunity amazon india has received government approval for its proposed $500 million entry into the food sector and is ramping up its business with amazon pantry and amazon now. last year  amazon's investment arm bought a 5% stake in department store chain shoppers stop  which will also open experience centres for the online retailer within its outlets.“for an online company  market access in the brick and mortar space brings great opportunity in a country where the larger proportion of sales happen offline. at the same time  younger consumers are increasingly getting comfortable with online and an integrated retail channel will always help ” said devangshu dutta  chief executive of consultancy third eyesight. “future group has been quite aggressive and experimental in the retail space over the past few years and has upgraded itself with a fresher look to appeal to new-generation consumers.”in the past six years  biyani has acquired half a dozen supermarket store chains in india to put together a total retail space of 13.6 million sq ft with presence in 255 cities through 930 stores. no other retailer can match future group's national presence apart from reliance retail. in addition  the retailer also has data of 500 million consumers who have shopped in its stores in a country where more than 98% of retail sales take place offline. it owns big bazaar and easyday stores among others.morgan stanley expects the online food and grocery to become the fastestgrowing segment  expanding at a compounded annual growth rate of 141% by 2020 and contributing $15 billion  or 12.5%  to overall online retail sales.most retailers in india are trying to provide a multichannel offering that meets the demands of customers who are looking to easily switch channels to buy products. offline players such as tata  reliance fresh and godrej nature’s basket have launched omnichannel initiatives  although the scale is not too big right now. future group too is trying technology integration  known internally as retail 3.0  which is being piloted through several easy-day stores that function as a marketplace  giving consumers access to the company’s entire inventory through the digital medium.</div></div>