<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>ahmedabad: eductech firm almamapper technologies backed by osawl techno ventures  has acquired another recruitment and assessment solutions company iteknika in a cash and share swap deal. this is the second acquisition within a year  having earlier acquired recruitment solution company vibrantminds technologies.  the transaction details are not revealed. iteknika is a saas based end to end recruitment and assessment management system  founded by dr. chandrani singh and ajit pandey  two avid researchers  with over 20 years of experience in the education industry. both are also recognized technical content writer for various publishing houses.  “the acquisition of iteknika will add new dimensions to the existing set of offerings by almamapper.” said vikas shinde  ceo of almamapper technologies. this acquisition instills new features and service offerings in to the almamapper portfolio and enables it to become a ubiquitous solution provider to the education ecosystem through effective use of technology.  as per the company  it has so far conducted assessment of over 50 000 candidates and over 100 institutions have used iteknika product. the system also provides an inbuilt library of over 10 000 questions including aptitude  technical as well as coding questions. recently iteknika have implemented artificial intelligence and machine learning for providing improved inferences and intelligent decision-making into their current system.  almamapper is growing its organizational and talent acquisition partners to over 300 companies including some of india’s largest multinational companies. the company is optimistic about the product offerings of iteknika and sees tremendous potential as the product is a powerful analytics driven solution with visualization and dashboarding capabilities for the industry and allows the top management to have a complete overview of the entire recruitment function.  founded in 2014  almamapper provides an integrated utility platform for colleges  companies and candidates. the platform provides solutions to students ranging from discovery of campuses  alumni  notes  courses  events  jobs & internships. the company has also created automated platforms for alumni management and campus placements for colleges along with talent acquisition solutions for corporates. </div></div>