<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: india-born canadian billionaire prem watsa’s fairfax group has agreed to buy a 51% stake in hyderabad-based bpo company  tata business support services (tbss)  for rs 153 crore. the fairfax group  through its bse-listed quess corp  will acquire the majority stake in tbss  which employs 27 000 people across 27 centres in the country. the transaction values tbss  including its debt  at rs 330 crore. with tata sons becoming a minority shareholder in tbss  the bpo company will no longer sport the tata brand. the transaction with quess will mark the tata group’s gradual exit from the voice-based bpo business  though it will continue to have interest in the non-voice-based bpo business through tcs. this will be the third deal between fairfax and the tata groups this year. in september  fairfax’s thomas cook (india) agreed to buy the forex and travel services businesses of tata capital. thomas cook (india) holds nearly 57% in quess corp which has a market capitalisation of about rs 11 980 crore. quess corp will buy the stake in tbss from tata sons and tata capital. the financial services arm of the tata group had acquired a sizeable stake in tbss following the merger of e-nxt financials with the bpo company in 2014. tata sons  which set up tbss in 2004 to cater to group companies’ requirements  will  however  continue to hold the remaining 49% stake in the entity. over the years  tbss  which offers voice and non-voice-based services  expanded its clientele to include third-party companies from telecom  dth  hospitality  banking  insurance and fmcg industries. tbss handles 500 million customer transactions a year  delivering services in 24 indian and 12 international languages  according to its website. the company  which will continue to be led by srinivas koppolu  reported an operating profit of about rs 56 crore on revenues of rs 661 crore in fiscal 2017. its operating profit has been in the range of rs 50 crore to rs 55 crore for the past three financial years. the proposed stake-divestment in tbss highlights the tata group’s intent to reduce its interests in relatively smaller ventures and increase its focus on larger enterprises which are or have the potential to become industry leaders. the $100-billion-plus conglomerate  which gets a lion’s share of its revenues from outside india  has said that it intends to weed out duplicating business either through a merger or sale.</div></div>