<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>bengaluru: the adani group has joined the race to acquire the indian renewable assets of singapore-based equis energy  which has put its entire portfolio valued at about $5 billion on the block  said sources close to the development. adani has teamed up with doha-based nebras power  which is looking to buy equis’ remaining assets in the philippines  japan  thailand  indonesia  australia and taiwan  they said.nebras has no presence in india and is not immediately considering entering the country on its own  and hence invited adani to join it in its bid  the source added. a number of discussions have already been held with equis in singapore and elsewhere.“it will take time. many meetings have been done  and many more will be held ” the source said. equis declined to comment on the matter. the adani group and nebras did not reply to emails.equis energy’s assets have attracted global interest because of the company’s strong presence in the rapidly expanding asian market for wind and solar energy.india’s renewable energy capacity has grown strongly with transparent auctions for projects that have attracted global companies and reduced tariffs sharply.global players interested in equis’ assets have formed teams  akin to adani and nebras. these include royal dutch shell and softbank; japanese financial services giant orix corp and dutch pension fund apg; us-based private equity fund i squared capital  which invests mainly in infrastructure  along with thailand’s electricity generation plc and japan’s mitsubishi; france’s energy major engie and china’s state power investment corporation.equis  a pe fund set up by former employees of australia’s macquarie bank in 2012  has raised equity funding of around $2.7 billion and rapidly built up one of the largest renewable energy portfolios in the south asian and asia-pacific regions. more than half its commissioned portfolio is in india — the wind and solar components were earlier known as energon and energon soleq  respectively.it has total commissioned wind and solar assets of 1100 mw  of which 554 mw is in india. this includes 414 mw of wind projects across madhya pradesh  andhra pradesh  maharashtra  karnataka and gujarat  and a 130 mw solar project in telangana. it is close to completing a 130 mw solar project in karnataka.the enterprise value of the indian assets has been set at rs 5 500-6 000 crore  or about rs 8 crore per mw  the source added. the company has another 356 mw under development in india  though construction has not yet begun  making it a total of 900 mw across 14 projects. adani renewable energy owns around 760 mw of wind and solar assets and is developing another 1400 mw. it is also the country’s biggest manufacturer of solar modules.nebras power was set up in 2014 by three leading qatar companies — qatar electricity and water co (40%)  qatar petroleum international (20%) and qatar holding (20%) — and mandated to invest in large-scale power and water projects around the world. among other investments  nebras has a substantial holding in a 52.5 mw solar project in ma’an  jordan  commissioned in 2016  and a 35% stake in a 2095 mw coal-fired plant in java  indonesia.the equis assets that nebras seeks to acquire include 202.6 mw of solar assets in japan  with another 88.5 mw under construction; 200.5 mw of solar and wind projects in the philippines  with another 53.8 mw under construction; and 64 mw of solar projects in thailand.equis also has major renewable projects at various stages in australia  indonesia and taiwan. “in total  including india  we have 1100 mw commissioned  500 mw under construction  2900 mw in advanced assets and another 6700 mw in development ” its spokesperson roberto de vido told et in an email.a number of other leading global energy companies are also in the race to acquire equis energy’s assets  with most having paired up  as nebras has done with adani. they include royal dutch shell and japan’s softbank; financial services giant orix corporation in japan and dutch pension fund apg; us based pe fund i squared capital which invests mainly in infrastructure  along with thailand’s electricity generation plc and japan’s mitsubishi; france’s energy major engie and china’s state power investment corporation. </div></div>