<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai : strides shasun  nectar lifesciences and private equity firm blackstone have emerged as frontrunners for bankrupt orchid pharma with aurobindo and dr reddy’s backing out  said two senior officials with knowledge of the development. orchid pharma has received 10 offers  which include bids from four financial bidders and six pharmaceutical companies  said one of the persons.others who have submitted expressions of interest include the ramchandra group  which runs medical colleges in chennai; mumbai-based melody healthcare; and hyderabad-based bion pharma. a fund backed by edelweiss group known as edelweiss alternative asset advisors and asset reconstruction companies jm finanical arc and phoenix arc have also shown interest  a person familiar with the matter told et.orchid pharma  which is facing financial claims of rs 3 500 crore  exports active pharmaceutical ingredients (apis) of antibiotics and has two us food and drug administration-approved manufacturing plants. it was referred to bankruptcy court by lakshmi vilas bank in the middle of last year. orchid pharma’s resolution professional sripatham ramkumar and strides did not respond to emails sent by et.“initially  as many 25 applications were received when the company invited expressions of interest ” said a person with knowledge of the matter. “however  just about 10 companies have paid the fees for accessing the data room before the december 1 deadline. it appears that only these companies would be interested in submitting a formal resolution plan.”an aurobindo executive who didn’t want to be named said the valuation was too high.“strides shasun and gland celsus could be frontrunners to acquire orchid as both are flush with cash and looking to boost their export markets ” said a senior executive  who did not want to be named.“strides in november sold its india business to eris lifesciences for rs 500 crore and gland celsus is one of the group companies of hyderabad-based gland pharma ” in which chinese drug giant fosun has a majority stake. gland pharma has  however  denied that it has bid.orchid pharma’s bankruptcy reflects the state of india’s api manufacturers  experts said. though indian drug makers are making their mark in formulation exports  api manufacturers have faced tough competition from chinese rivals. almost 60 per cent of apis that indian pharma companies use to make drugs comes from china. the state of small and medium-size api makers persuaded the government to set up a taskforce to impose curbs on the import of apis and encourage domestic makers. orchid had sold assets to rein in debt.shares of orchid closed at rs 17 on friday  down 5 per cent.</div></div>