<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>tata steel on wednesday ended its nearly decade-long effort to stabilise its european steel business on its own by striking a deal to merge operations with german giant thyssenkrupp whose european steel business is in a similar spot of bother.  tata  whose efforts to become a global steel player with the acquisition of anglo-dutch steel giant corus in 2007 did not exactly play out as planned  has been struggling to deal with the problem of losses in its european steel operations for some years now. thyssenkrupp  which has also suffered from headwinds buffeting the european steel industry  will now partner with tata in a new company which will be the second-largest steelmaker in europe.  the new company will be called thyssenkrupp tata steel and will be a ¤15.96 billion business with 48 000 employees. the merger is expected to bring substantial cost savings with both firms putting the figure at 400-600 million euros annually.  tata will immediately benefit as debt of about 2.5 billion euros will move from its balance sheet to the new firm.  the merger  when it happens  will enable the two steelmakers to tackle overcapacity in the region and more importantly enable tata steel to pursue expansion through acquisition of stressed assets and brownfield expansion in india.  it will untangle tata somewhat from the corus acquisition as it will no longer fully own the european steel business. “the tata group and thyssenkrupp have a strong heritage in the global steel industry and share similar culture and values ” said natarajan chandrasekaran  chairman of tata steel. “the strategic logic of the proposed joint venture in europe is based on very strong fundamentals.”  on a day when the bse sensex closed flat  the tata steel share price made a modest gain of 1.64% to end the day's trading at rs 687.65.  ever since the commodity cycle turned in late 2008  tata steel which acquired corus for $12 billion in january 2007 and later renamed it tata steel europe (tse) faced a major challenge due to falling demand for steel and downturn in the european steel industry.  the company was forced to make a goodwill impairment charge of $1.6 billion for loss of value in tata steel europe and other overseas assets some years back.      this was followed in march 2015 by a rs 6 500-crore charge for loss of value of operations in europe  canada  and mozambique in 2014-15. in the past few years  volatility in raw material prices and a flood of cheaper imports from china hit the european steel market severely  impacting profitability of steel firms. “this jv is about growth and value. the capital structure we have created makes it viable ” said koushik chatterjee  group ed (finance & corporate) at tata steel and one of the main architects of the deal. thyssenkrupp faced similar problems and the idea behind the deal is to help both companies recover from their respective problems.  last november  thyssenkrupp reported a 12% fall in annual operating profit with experts underlining the need for finding a solution for its struggling steel business to combat overcapacity in the european steel industry. thyssenkrupp’s steel europe division  which accounted for about a fifth of the group’s overall sales  reported a 36% drop in operating profit for the year to the end of september  despite a perk up in steel prices toward the end of the period.  final agreement the two partners  who have been in merger talks for two-and-half years  said on wednesday they will form a 50:50 joint venture and that they aim to sign a final agreement in early 2018.  the merger is likely to lead to job losses of nearly 2 000 in administration and a similar number of jobs cuts in production. the redundancies will be borne equally by the two partners  according to a thyssenkrupp statement.  some were sceptical about the merger. “two negatives are not going to make a positive ” said rakesh arora  md  at goindia advisors. “steel demand in europe is falling faster than they (steelmakers) can cut capacities ” arora said. his reasoning is that china has huge steelmaking capacities and fortunes are largely linked to china’s economy doing well so that its steel is used domestically  and the tariff walls in europe are raised to fend them from chinese steel. further  the synergies are insignificant. a 10-dollar change in steel prices is like a 120-130 million dollar effect on ebitda. “steel prices are volatile and therefore i am sceptical ” arora said.  thyssenkrupp said the jv will have a two-tier management structure comprising a management board and a supervisory board. both boards will have equal representation from both firms and will be managed through a “lean holding” company in the netherlands.  tata steel cleared what many analysts believed to be the final hurdle to the merger about 10 days back with the separation of the british steel pension scheme (bsps) from tata steel uk on september 11  with the latter receiving all necessary approvals for its regulated apportionment agreement (raa).  it involved paying 550 million pounds and a 33% stake in tata steel uk to bsps trustees. lt freed tata steel uk and its affiliate companies from 15 billion pounds of pension liabilities  paving the way for the merger.  tata would add all its flat steel activities in europe as part of the jv. thyssenkrupp said it intends to contribute its steel europe business to the planned joint venture.  there are also plans for the joint venture to include thyssenkrupp mill services & systems gmbh  a steel mill services provider that is part of the materials services business.  five reasons the german major listed five reasons for partnering tata steel with economies of scale in flat steel category topping the list as a key success factor in a market caught up in consolidation.  the two businesses also make a good complementary fit  since thyssenkrupp is stronger in the oem sector while tata’s strength lies with industrial customers  it said.  both have performance orientation and their steelworks rank among some of the most efficient facilities in europe with tatas restructuring port talbot & selling long steel units and thyssenkrupp’s sale of its loss-making brazilian steel mill csa and capacity adjustment at its hkm mill in duisburg.  the two also share similar corporate culture in addition to innovative strengths for development of high-tech steels  a key competitive differentiator  thyssenkrupp said.  “under the planned joint venture  we are giving the european steel activities of thyssenkrupp and tata a lasting future ” said heinrich hiesinger  ceo of thyssenkrupp ag. “we are tackling the structural challenges of the european steel industry and creating a strong no. 2.  in tata  we have found a partner with a very good strategic and cultural fit. not only do we share a clear performance orientation  but also the same understanding of entrepreneurial responsibility toward workforce and society.”  chandrasekaran also alluded to how the domestic steel business will now get the flexibility to pursue growth  for long constrained by the huge debt it carried in its books on account of the merger. “this not only ensures a sustainable business in europe but also allows tata steel’s indian operations to grow and build capacities here ” the tata steel chairman said. </div></div>