<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>davos: almost seven months after signing on the dotted line  the high-profile investment by warburg pincus in tata motors subsidiary tata technologies — the fattest cheque the premier pe fund had written in india — has come under a cloud  potentially derailing the transaction all together  said multiple people aware of the development.the long stop date  technical term for the last day by which all outstanding issues need to be closed before consummating a transaction  has lapsed a few days ago and although extended for a few more days  the future of the transaction with warburg is uncertain. sources close to the tatas and warburg said delays in approvals across jurisdictions and dismal business performance leading to a sharp drop in revenues and profits have made both sides take a serious relook at the transaction.last june  tata motors and two other group entities agreed to sell a 43% stake in tata technologies to an affiliate of us-based pe firm warburg pincus for $360 million (rs 2 231 crore) to help reduce debt.warburg was to purchase a 30% from tata motors and its subsidiary sheba properties and the entire 13% held by tata capital. after the sale  tata motors and other group firms were to retain an equal 43% stake in the company  while the remaining 14% is owned by employees. “the business has seriously underperformed and profits have halved. operations just fell through the floor ” said an official on the condition of anonymity. “when the company revealed what’s been going on  everyone — including the tata sons leadership — was shocked.”this was the first big divestment by tata motors since n chandrasekaran took over in february as chairman of tata sons  and of some group firms  including tata motors. the move was aimed at helping tata motors pare debt.its consolidated debt (including that at uk subsidiary jaguar land rover automotive plc) stood at rs 79 323.36 crore at end 2016-17. as on september 30  2017  tata motors consolidated debt was rs 76 427 crore.“the tatas have taken a step back to re-evaluate what they plan to do with the future of the company. they are to decide and get back to warburg soon. but chances of the transaction not going through are very  very high ” said one of the officials quoted above.even if it does go through now  the commercial and business specifications will have to be totally reworked  leading to further delay in the whole exercise  said the officials mentioned above. for two and a half years  the tata group tried to monetise the business and worked with citi to find a strategic or financial partner.tata motors had initially considered the idea of selling a controlling stake in the company at a $1 billion valuation. in parallel  it explored an ipo. several pe funds — carlyle  blackstone  apax  advent  and cppib — had considered buying into the company before warburg moved in.“this transaction represents a tremendous endorsement of what we have achieved so far ” tata technologies managing director and chief executive warren harris had said last year. tata group and warburg pincus spokesperson declined to comment.tcs to the rescue sources close to tata group said the transaction was illconceived in the first place  and once concluded  would have created serious conflictof-interest issues  as several other group companies  including flagship tcs  compete with tata technologies for the same business pie. one of the options  therefore  being explored is to merge the two to avoid duplication.tata technologies has a high-powered board  led by old tata hands s ramadorai  former chief executive  tata consultancy services  praveen kadle  outgoing md of tata capital  c ramakrishnan  former cfo  tata motors  and independent directors such as entrepreneur falguni nayar.“had it been a complete sale  it would have been simpler. but getting an external investor on board and staying on as an equal partner open up to a lot more scrutiny and conflict scenarios ” said one of the officials involved on condition of anonymity as the talks are in private domain. this is also against the business ethos chandrasekaran has been pushing at india’s top conglomerate – of simplifying group structures and commercial operations  and streamlining a vast  unwieldy portfolio that makes everything from tea to tanks.pe industry executives  however  believe warburg should have stuck on and closed the trade. “they had signed an agreement at a certain price. just because the performance is bad in two quarters doesn’t mean you should develop cold feet. if the numbers had radically improved  would they have paid a premium ” asked the head of a rival firm on condition of anonymity.“it can have a wider ramification. business performance risk is integral to any investment. pe funds have a four-to-six-year view on a business and not a few quarters’ view like public equity. to make pe returns  you need to take pe-like risks too.” about 55% of company turnover and an even greater share of profits still come from tata group companies  namely jlr and tata motors.</div></div>