<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by saritha raithe board of flipkart online services pvt has approved an agreement to sell about 75 percent of the company to a walmart inc.-led group for approximately $15 billion  according to people familiar with the matter  an enormous bet by the american retailer on international expansion.under the proposed deal  softbank group corp. will sell all of the 20-plus percent stake it holds in flipkart through an investment fund at a valuation of roughly $20 billion  said the people  asking not to be named because the matter is private. google-parent alphabet inc. is likely to participate in the investment with walmart  said one of the people. a final close is expected within 10 days  though terms could still change and a deal isn’t certain  they said.that would seal a walmart triumph over amazon.com inc.  which has been trying to take control of flipkart with a competing offer. flipkart’s board ultimately decided a deal with walmart is more likely to win regulatory approval because amazon is the no. 2 e-commerce operator in india behind flipkart and its primary competitor. amazon is out of the running unless walmart hits unforeseen trouble.if completed  the deal will give bentonville  arkansas-based walmart a leading position in the growing market of 1.3 billion people and a chance to rebuild its reputation online. the world’s largest retailer has struggled against amazon as consumers increase their spending on the internet. india is the next big potential prize after the u.s. and china  where foreign retailers have made little progress against alibaba group holding ltd.softbank declined to comment. flipkart  walmart and google didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.amazon has already been aggressively expanding in the country on its own. founder jeff bezos has committed $5.5 billion to the country and his local chief  amit agarwal  has made progress by adapting the site to local conditions.after losing china  jeff bezos really wants to win in indiaamazon has been gaining ground quickly on flipkart and it tried to derail the walmart transaction at least in part because it will fortify the indian rival. walmart can aid flipkart with deep pockets and decades of retailing expertise in skills from logistics to marketing. the u.s. retailer has been working to win over the indian company since at least last year.last month  walmart agreed to cede control of its u.k. grocery chain  asda  as part of a global strategy to prioritize faster-growing markets over some more mature ones. walmart is merging asda with the british retailer j sainsbury plc and will retain a 42 percent stake in the combined company.as part of the walmart deal  flipkart’s existing shareholders tencent holdings ltd.  south africa’s naspers ltd. and microsoft corp. are expected to retain small stakes  the people said.a $20 billion valuation for flipkart would be substantially higher than the $12 billion mark it hit last year. it is already the most valuable startup in india.softbank stands to make a tidy profit on a stake it took only last year. the japanese company  through its vision fund  invested $2.5 billion at the earlier valuation  people familiar said at the time. that stake could be worth more than $4 billion at the walmart deal’s valuation.</div></div>