<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: realty developer mahindra lifespace developers has partnered hdfc capital advisors-managed hdfc capital affordable real estate fund-1 to form a platform focused on the development of affordable housing projects in india.  the platform will have total investment commitment of rs 500 crore over three years.  the dedicated company will scale up to address the demand-supply gap in affordable housing in india  with an estimated development footprint of between 5 and 10 million square feet. the brand will be called happinest  mahindra lifespace said in a statement.  “the objective of this platform is to invest in residential affordable housing projects by providing long-term equity. the lack of patient long-term capital is one of the key challenges facing growth and development of low and middle-income housing in india ” said vipul roongta  ceo  hdfc capital advisors.  “hdfc capital’s first fund is dedicated to addressing this funding gap by providing long-term equity-oriented capital for development in urban and semi-urban peripheral areas.”  the proposed developments will be undertaken through mahindra happinest developers  with a 51:49 equity share between the developer and hdfc capital. the first development to be undertaken through the joint platform will be ‘happinest  palghar’  expected to be launched in the second half of 2017-18.  “affordable housing is a critical component of quality urban infrastructure  and is also a growth driver for the real estate industry in india ” said anita arjundas  md  mahindra lifespace developers. mahindra lifespace entered the affordable housing segment in 2014 through its category brand  happinest.  the company has launched more than 1 600 units across the company’s ongoing affordable housing projects in chennai (happinest  avadi) and mmr (happinest  boisar). about 1 000 homes have already been handed over to date. these houses are currently priced between rs 17 lakh and rs 27 lakh. </div></div>