<div><div><h2>French firm Teleperformance joins race to acquire Intelenet</h2></div><div>mumbai: french outsourcing giant has emerged as a strong contender to acquire blackstone-owned bpo company  multiple people directly associated with the development told et even though valuation differences are proving to be a key roadblock in the transaction. euronext-listed teleperformance is set to face competition from pe group and convergys who joined the fray late. most other potential suitors including other pe buyout groups apax carlyle goldman sachs principal investment area (pia) kkr-backed webhelp and conduent a spinoff of xerox evaluated the asset but opted out of the formal bidding process that was initiated earlier in the year. one of the sources mentioned above said us-based synnex corporation too is prepping a late play though it could not be independently verified. freemont-based synnex acquired ibm s crm based bpo business for $1.2 billion in 2013.   if successful this will be the second large india focussed transaction for teleperformance having acquired parts of essar group s bpo business in 2014. blackstone which bought back intelenet in 2013 from uk s serco group for  250 million (rs 2558 crore or $385 million) has mandated jp morgan to run a formal process to sell the company. blackstone had then edged past cvc capital partners former owners of f1 racing with their offer that included a gross consideration of  220 million in cash and a  30 million in loan note. the loan accruing annual interests of 7% had to be paid to the serco group. however blackstone s expectation of at least 12 times intelenet s fy18 ebitda of $90 million or a valuation of $1.08 billion or about rs 7222 crore could turn out to be a potential roadblock. the diligence by prospective suitors got completed on monday. when contacted teleperformance declined to comment. mails sent to blackstone and baring pe asia did not receive a response. intelenet currently employs 55000 people in the americas the uk europe middle east india and the philippines. it had plans to double revenues to $1 billion by 2020 via acquisitions in digital technologies and on back of deals from blackstone s portfolio companies.  teleperformance is on record saying that they will improve margins but that s not an easy game. intelenet being the most profitable asset around can help them achieve that  said an bangalore based analyst familiar with the sector.  there is sectoral complementarity too in bfsi travel and hospitality.  founded in 1978 teleperformance positions itself as a leader in outsourced omnichannel customer experience management serves companies and administrations around the world with customer care technical support customer acquisition as well as with online interpreting solutions visa application management services data analysis and debt collection programs. in 2017 it reported consolidated revenue of $4.7 billion. the group operates 171000 computerised workstations with 223000 employees across 350 contact centres in 76 countries and serving 160 markets and manages programs in 265 languages and dialects on behalf of major international companies operating in a wide variety of industries. in 2014 teleperformance paid $610 million to take over parts of essar group s aegis in the us philippines and costa rica. the company set up its india operations in 2001 and currently has over 12800 employees across 6 centres in 3 indian cities. on the back of its new $6 billion new asia fund baring asia that already has already backed hexaware and telus international has been scouting for buyout opportunities across the region. it has in the past invested in lafarge india and bought out cms infosystems from blackstone.</div></div>