<div><div><h2>ET Awards 2018: My achievements have been shaped by my Indian upbringing, says Shantanu Narayen of Adobe</h2></div><div>our bureau:  ceo of inc and winner of global indian of the year award said his achievements have been shaped by his indian upbringing and the learnings from indian business titans. under narayen rated among the most successful non-founder ceos in the  adobe recorded explosive growth. his leadership helped the san jose-based company wade through the global financial crisis of 2008 which struck soon after he took over as ceo. "while adobe's mission represents the what the how for me is shaped by my upbringing and the indian in me. focus on the bigger price the long term and the learnings i have had from the business titans including those who are present here" he said in his acceptance speech. adobe systems is the maker of image-editing software and digital document reader pdf. "the term global both embodied to me both ambition and aspiration. i am proud to be user of adobe that embodied both of them" he said. "we are all where we come from and indian shaped who i am." in march this year adobe systems passed a key milestone: a market capitalisation of $100 billion. the 56-year-old chief executive of adobe who helped the maker of the pdf file format transition to a cloud-based subscription model that ensured recurring income instead of one-time licensing of its software. he created a multibillion-dollar business at the company by developing tools for digital marketing sensing the shifting of advertising from traditional platforms to digital. "when i took over a ceo in 2009 the global recession hit. we were convinced that a crisis would be a terrible opportunity to waste. we were the first company to transform ourselves from desktop model to subscription model" he said. narayen entered adobe in 1998 as senior vice-president of worldwide product research and was later promoted to executive president. he served on the board of dell and is a member of the advisory board of the haas school of business university of california berkeley. "i am thankful of innovation and creativity of our global workforce and employees in india well played a significant role in the success of the last decade" he said. narayen said he wanted to grow up to be a journalist. "growing up in hyderabad my goal was to actually become a journalist and the early highlights of my career was to be selected by the economic times to be editor for a day" he said. he said that the copy of the newspaper he edited and a picture of him doing an all-nighter on it hangs in his office.</div></div>