<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by now everyone knows what the initials il&fs; stand for  but i have another option: internal looting and fraud syndicate. too strong  financial experts would give it a more polite name  but i am only a lay citizen  not a financial expert.what the whole sorry il&fs; saga tells us is that we can’t trust the experts. there are exceptions of course  but many use their expertise to enrich themselves  or they don’t use their expertise and let others enrich themselves. a majority of us are not financial experts  and we inexpertly pay taxes and invest in companies and buy insurance policies  and then find the money going into deep  deep holes. so here are a layman’s naïve questions: how did il&fs; run up a debt of rs 91 000 crore (let’s spell it out: rs 91 000 00 00 000)  did it happen overnight  if it didn’t  as it obviously couldn’t  how did no one notice it till now  if it was noticed before  why didn’t its shareholders (lic  sbi  oryx corp of japan  abu dhabi investment authority being the major ones) call a halt and sack its management much  much earlier  if the shareholder directors were sleeping  were the independent directors rip van winkles too  how is it that two rating agencies  allegedly run by professionals  continued to give il&fs; an aaa rating  and in less than two months have downgraded it to d (default) the unreality of it all is staggering. the government stepped in on october 1. but just two days earlier  the company’s shareholders approved a rs 4 500-crore rights issue. and a mere month before that  the company gave out a final dividend of 10%. (in the previous year  the dividend was 42.5%). and you thought only profit-making companies gave out dividends  in the same vein  have you heard of companies facing virtual insolvency  awarding massive pay raises  il&fs; gave a 66% increase to its management staff  and chairman ravi parthasarathy gave himself a 144% increase  taking his salary to rs 26.3 crore.given the numbers  you would think il&fs; would be a very large company. actually  the holding company has only 131 employees; however  it has very many subsidiaries and joint venture companies whose number  depending on your source of information  is anywhere between 165 and 348. now why would a company  which is not diversified  but involved in one basic activity  need so many subsidiaries  unless the idea was to have a large group of unlisted entities  which would therefore escape scrutiny  we thought only shady private companies do this to create a complex web of cross-holding and fudged accounts; but here’s a company whose large holding is with lic and state bank and therefore the government and  it follows  poor lay people like us.more naïve questions follow. three people ran il&fs; more or less from the start: chairman parthasarathy  vc and md hari sankaran and jt md and ceo arun saha. why were they allowed to run the company as a private fiefdom  will there be an investigation into their assets now  secondly  what were the auditors doing all these years  they raised a red flag only this year  but the company is 31 years old. does anyone remember satyam computers  the only other company to have been taken over by the government  it was found that its auditors were complicit in satyam’s fraud. will there be an audit of il&fs; auditors is the commendable idea of having independent directors mere eyewash  il&fs; had luminaries like r c bhargava (chairman of maruti suzuki)  sunil mathur (former chairman of lic) and jaithirth rao (former country head of citicorp) on the board for periods ranging from six to 28 years. were they presented with lies  damned lies  and statistics  or were they supplied with wool to pull over their eyes  or did they bring their own  bhargava was also on the risk management committee  so essential in assessing infrastructure projects. why did this committee not meet for three whole years (not two as reported)  the role of rating agencies also needs to be scrutinised. a much larger question: is there an inherent conflict of interest in the fact that auditors and rating agencies are paid by the companies they have to assess  sadly  the reserve bank of india  which has no such constraints  was also found wanting in the il&fs; case.in short  our whole system  in spite of the safeguards which governments have tried to build into it  is susceptible to large-scale fraud. this is made worse because within the community there seems to be a reluctance to point fingers: for example  hdfc exited from the il&fs; board a year ago. if it did so in spite of having a 9% stake in the company  it must have been because it saw danger signs. why did it not issue a quiet warning to everyone else finally  that leaves the ‘watchdog’ of democracy  the media. did it too fall asleep </div></div>