<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by bhuma shrivastava  saket sundria and pei yi makmukesh ambani overtook alibaba group founder jack ma to become asia’s richest person as he positions reliance industries ltd. to disrupt the e-commerce space in india.the chairman of india’s refining-to-telecoms conglomerate  ambani was estimated to be worth $44.3 billion on friday with reliance industries ltd. rising 1.6 percent to a record 1 099.8 rupees  according to bloomberg billionaires index. ma’s wealth stood at $44 billion at close of trade on thursday in the u.s.  where the company is listed.ambani has added $4 billion to his fortune this year as reliance doubled its petrochemicals capacity and investors cheered the success of his disruptive telecom upstart reliance jio infocomm ltd. then earlier this month  the tycoon unveiled plans to leverage his 215 million telecom subscribers to expand his e-commerce offerings  taking on the likes of amazon.com inc. and walmart inc. alibaba group holding ltd.’s ma has lost $1.4 billion in 2018.“we need to broaden our horizon of expectation with reliance ” said nitin tiwari  a mumbai-based analyst at antique stock broking. “they are in for something really transformational.”ambani  best known for executing large-scale projects  spearheaded construction of the world’s largest refining complex in jamnagar  owns the most-widespread mobile data network globally and claims to have india’s biggest as well as most-profitable retail firm.at this month’s annual shareholders’ meeting  ambani said reliance saw its “biggest growth opportunity in creating a hybrid  online-to-offline new commerce platform ” involving the group’s reliance retail ltd. and reliance jio businesses. the "size of reliance will more than double" by 2025  ambani said at the meeting.jio will introduce a fiber-based broadband service across 1 100 indian cities in august in what ambani said would be the biggest greenfield fixed-line rollout anywhere in the world.“jio is the driver behind the surge in reliance " said deven choksey  managing director at mumbai-based kr choksey shares and securities pvt. “if the company is going to double profit a few years down the line  the stock price will also double  if not more."a spokesman for reliance didn’t immediately reply to an email seeking comment.equity culturewithin a week of the announcements  reliance re-entered the $100 billion club after more than a decade. he used the same venue two years ago to announce his disruptive telecom venture with free offers that eventually forced smaller rivals to quit and the biggest ones to merge.the billionaire inherited reliance from his much-storied father dhirubhai ambani  who is credited with sparking an equity culture among middle-class indians and using their savings to build the group’s textile and petrochemical manufacturing units.dhirubhai’s death in 2002 left the group in the hands of mukesh and his younger brother anil ambani. the brothers eventually split the company in 2005  as per a family pact brokered by their mother  after years of acrimony.</div></div>