<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>upl is an indian company only in name and headquarters. it’s actually one of the biggest homegrown mncs. and the shroff at its helm is no less layered.over the course of a 25-year acquisitional pursuit  jaidev ‘jai’ shroff always wanted the last word  even if it meant walking away from the negotiating table — be it over a valuation mismatch of just about $350 million or an insisted-on deal exclusivity.but he made waves off the field in the midst of the recent world cup when  after some frantic deal-making across the us and uk and even moscow  he finally closed his biggest and boldest corporate manoeuvre yet.upl’s $4.2-billion buyout of arysta lifesciences — a company almost its own size — from platform specialty products is transformational and could potentially throw up $5 billion in combined revenues and $1.2-billion annual ebitda.“everyone knew this was a great fit for us so we kept the dialogue going during the last 10 years ” says shroff  global chief executive of upl  thumping the table with his palm enthusiastically. “but we were always willing to walk away if it didn’t make sense. we are very focused on return on our capital and wanted to do the deal on our own terms.”this patience and discipline is precisely what shashank joshi  head  corporate banking  mitsubishi ufj financial group  india  and a key lender to upl — formerly united phosphorous — in the transaction  found impressive about shroff. “he did not get into a bidding war but closed the deal firmly within their valuation targets.”if tina ambani is believed to have played cupid 18 years ago for shroff’s second marriage  then a certain ‘bengali babaji’ is responsible its spectacular breakdown.if his candid moments — with buddies and sizzling hot russian models off the aegean coast — are not plastered across instagram and other social media  then his name is dragged into ft’s exposé of the now-infamous ‘alpha men only’ presidents club charity dinner held at the dorchester in january this year.but over the past two decades  shroff has proved he is far more than mere flamboyance or a precocious third generation inheritor of his family’s business. he is as reliance’s nikhil meswani calls him  “a trailblazer responsible for building one of india’s best mncs.”seeds of successtoday  upl is the fifth-largest agrochemicals and crop protection company in the world  with 87% of revenues coming from an empire spanning 133 countries and 33 manufacturing facilities in 11 countries. “jai is the architect of upl’s success.his father consolidated their position in india but jai identified the core strengths  stuck to it and grew the business manifold through a series of bolt-on acquisitions (41  to be precise) ” adds meswani  a family friend for over two decades.more importantly  shroff has integrated all of them from markets as diverse as brazil and argentina to the us  canada  france  japan and australia. and  of course  his latest  the most daring. “but he’s always had enough of it ” quips one of his peers.with arysta  upl will become among the most profitable agrochemicals companies globally and the largest post-patents  getting access to new markets such as eastern europe  russia and africa and growing in europe and latin america. scale will also enable stronger negotiating powers with farmers and trade channels.“upl will also get access to fast-growing segments of biosolutions and seeds treatment  where it does not have a presence ” alok dalal and alok srivastava  analysts with clsa  point out.who can argue with such synergies and the significant opportunity to drive revenue growth from a broader portfolio and geographical presence and shared innovation capabilities upl has been both  a price-setter and a disruptor  because of its command over supply chain. shroff is able to undercut prices or shift out of chinese suppliers as a tactic and grow market share. “if you combine arysta’s asset-light  r&d-high; business model with upl’s low cost manufacturing and distribution heft  then in one shot  you are taking the competition right into the tents of the big boys ” explains one of his investors who did not wish to be quoted.that’s strategic in a global scenario where just four companies – bayer-monsanto  syngenta  basf and dow-dupont — control 75% of the market on the back of unprecedented global mergers and acquisitions.but with most of the large global corporations having a cookie-cutter approach to squeezing margins  a nimble  entrepreneurial company with deep customer relations can become a happy alternative.bucking trends upl’s story is unique in various ways. the company started in 1969 as a producer of phosphorus-based industrial chemicals  import substitution being the prime driver.there are several chemical companies today in india that are potentially at the same stage of product portfolio evolution as upl was four decades ago! but upl graduated to an agrochemicals focus  which helped with longer-term objectives. “we understand the business. we have not diversified beyond our core. we do take geographical risks but never financial ones or move away from our knitting ” says shroff.throughout the mid-1990s  upl concentrated on international  backed by manufacturing in india. “we soon realised we make more money overseas and it’s far more profitable. so we changed our focus ” he adds. “we were really businessto-business in the 1990s and built global scaled plants here to service the world. we revisited india only in the 2000s.”“it was never easy to do business in india ” says dipesh shroff  former managing director of excel crop care and part of the extended family  who sold his company to sumitomo. “there was never any institutional support and very few focused to be innovators… even rajnikant shroff had it tough initially.”yet upl has always charted a different course than peers like rallis. it was  to begin with  the earliest investor among indian companies for product registrations in regulated markets. with close to 6 000 registrations in several global geographies  it has potentially invested more than the rest of the indian players combined. smaller players were deterred by capital and time consumption; it took upl about three and a half years in the us  four to four and a half years in europe and more than five in japan.“upl understood the power of backward integration in agrochemicals throughout its journey ” says vishal agarwal  managing director  shiva pharmachem  a supplier to upl. “in some years  when it became fashionable to be asset-light  upl continued its investments in global manufacturing capabilities. even now  it has embarked on a massive capex for a us plant. it has sizeable presence in the phosphorus value chain  several active ingredients and its own caustic chlorine capabilities. it has also moved into complex chemistry and molecules.”the shroffs learned  very early on  the need for direct presence in 40 countries  with their own sales and distribution giving them unparalleled access to market knowledge on the ground — which they use to their advantage while evaluating inorganic opportunities.the rate of new product introductions was steadily declining; post patent products accounted for 61% of the world markets in 2015  compared to 30% in 2000. upl rode the wave through consolidation opportunities to emerge as a global powerhouse like adama agricultural solutions.while rallis and excel limited themselves to india  upl created a full suite of crop solutions  including seeds  for geographical diversification. that’s been a winning proposition as the narrative shifts towards food security on the back of a decrease in arable land and the need to increase yields.even peers in the tata group privately acknowledge that upl has achieved what the group’s doyen  darbari seth  had originally envisioned for rallis.“no indian company has straddled seeds and the agrochemical value chain as well. the company surprised a lot of industry players by acquiring seeds company advanta in 2006 and later merging it with the parent ” says navroz mahudawala  founder  candle partners  a boutique investment bank.strike it righteven then  the timing of the arysta union stands out  coming as it does when most large indian companies are struggling to manage their strained balance sheets or are looking inwards.“upl is probably the only indian company to have an investment grade global business with top global industry rankings without support from the indian parent entity. this is truly remarkable ” argues joshi.the momentum going strong over two decades shows “their ambition and single-minded motivation ” feels ravi raheja  group president  k raheja corp  another old family friend. “that’s their biggest achievement.”each deal has added a strategic piece to the puzzle and to the overall confidence levels  says vikram shroff  jai’s brother and executive director in charge of dayto-day operations and hr.if mtm in the uk was the first international acquisition  in 1994  to enter europe and the herbicide portfolio  devrinol  gave them a toehold in the us and japan two years later. riceco  a crop focused acquisition helped leverage global sales and marketing network in taking product offerings to global rice markets while reposo in argentina and dva agro and sib in brazil – the single largest country market – gave market access.“their secret to success lies in air miles. jai is tremendously hands-on  yet focused on the big picture strategy and business development  travelling 15-20 days a month ” says fellow gujarat industrialist siddharth jain  director of inox group  whose group company gujarat fluorochemicals has business relationships with upl.global indian “i live on planes ” jaidev accepts. “if you want to be successful  you need to be 200% committed and lead by example.” from dealing with trade unions in france to large agriculture distributors in brazil  banana plantation owners in costa rica or innovators in japan — the secret is accepting global cultures without imposing your own. “it’s in our dna to work with foreigners ” says jaidev.rarely does the company export indian expat talent and let the locals manage the regions  even post acquisition  they are under the hawk eye of the central management in india. the cerexagri senior management  for instance  continues to work in senior position even after 11 years  with some like its business head stepping up to become the global manufacturing head for the entire group.“post-acquisition  the formation of integration teams typically have equal members from both companies ” says vikram. “senior members from acquired companies have occupied several key positions in upl. from european acquisitions  we have a person heading one of our us business while two brazilian senior team members are heading the us business and one of the global verticals. even the global hr network are locals.”blips such as the payment crisis in argentina  labour in europe  negotiations with large farmer and distributor lobby groups in brazil  coups in african countries and volatile currencies haven’t fazed the company yet.jai shroff even recalls concluding a deal in denmark in 24 hours flat  22 years ago when the founder of agrodan gave a stiff ‘do-or-disappear’ deadline. even at home  old-timers remember the family defaulting on promoter warrants  which led to the stock tanking. for jaidev  it was baptism by fire when in 1986  they faced a crisis after one of their big distributors went belly up. “so i went around collecting money directly from dealers ” he says nonchalantly.financial conservatism  therefore  comes naturally and that is evident — from hedging forex risks to unstretched balance sheets. upl has raised $3 billion from banks at 4% for five years  which is cheaper than the bond market.leverage will rise sharply in the short term  but jaidev is confident this “acquisition will be paid off in three years.” analysts such as amrit murarka of deutsche bank like the fact that while upl is paying 9.9x the fy18 ev/ebitda to buy 100% of arysta  it has partly funded it ($1.2 billion) by giving a 22% in subsidiary upl corporation  the international arm used as the acquisition vehicle  at 12.3x ev/ebitda.even then  integrating bite-sized acquisitions is far simpler than marrying two different contrasting cultures of similar size and scale. arysta built its agrochemicals business through m&a; of chemtura  agriphar and arysta life sciences – but has only now been able to consolidate. as an industry player puts it  “people management can make or break this.” even his deep-pocketed rivals won’t sit tight and upl needs to calibrate its strategy to deal with the industry flux.many would even argue that jaidev needs a professional chief executive. “he is thinking strategy  business development and manufacturing  meeting stakeholders all over the world. at some stage  he will run out of bandwidth ” says another family friend. and that brings us back to his lifestyle.associates say his reputation is compartmentalised away from work. in fact  as raheja puts it  “it often works to his advantage. let people under estimate him at their own peril.”jaidev argues  “should one be successful and boring… i do not want to be a boring boy. it’s not necessarily good. i don’t think people invest in boring companies.” his father apparently once told him when he was starting out  “don’t think it will work out eventually  but do give it a shot.” as always  jai shroff has the last word.</div></div>