<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: the national company law tribunal (nclt) dismissed the lawsuit filed by two cyrus mistry family firms against tata sons  saying it didn’t find merit in allegations of mismanagement at the conglomerate  marking a reversal for the holding company’s ousted chairman.the case  which has been going on for more than 18 months  will be appealed  according to a person with knowledge of the mistry camp’s next move.the two-member bench of bsv prakash kumar and v nallasenapathy said it found no merit in accusations that tata trusts chairman ratan tata and trustee n soonawala acted as ‘super directors’ on the tata sons board. mistry had alleged inappropriate interference by tata and soonawala in the affairs of the group. the bench said the tata sons directors were competent enough to dismiss an executive chairman and added that mistry’s conduct didn’t augur well for the board as he had openly gone against it.it rejected the demand for proportionate representation on the board and said it can’t stop tata sons from converting itself into a private company. nclt said it did not find merit in the allegations against aircel promoter c sivasankaran and airasia india. the mistry family-owned shapoorji pallonji group has a stake of 18.4% in tata sons.ratan tata welcomed the decision. “the judgement of the nclt delivered this morning has been a vindication of the actions that tata sons felt obliged to take in october 2016 ” he said in an emailed statement  referring to mistry’s ouster. “it is a reinforcement of the principles and forthrightness that prevails in our judicial system  which should make all of us proud of our country and its democracy.’’two mistry family firms — cyrus investments and sterling investment — had filed the suit alleging mismanagement and oppression of minority shareholder interests at tata sons. the legal battle followed mistry’s sacking on october 24  2016  having been at the helm for four years  which was followed by a public spat. mistry’s successor hoped for closure to the dispute.“the judgement has only reaffirmed and vindicated that tata sons and its operating companies have always acted in a fair manner and in the best interests of its stakeholders...the tata group has always been committed and will continue to be committed to transparency and good corporate governance of global standards ” said tata sons chairman n chandrasekaran. “tata sons hopes that a finality will be given to the judgement of nclt  mumbai  by all concerned in the larger interest of companies  the shareholders and the public.”the petition had sought proportionate representation for sp group directors on the tata sons board  preventing interference by trustees of the tata trusts in the affairs of tata sons  stopping the conversion of tata sons into a private company and disallowing any forceful transfer of shares held by cyrus mistry family firms in tata sons. conversion into a private company restricts free share transfer. mistry had called the move a “weapon” to oppress minority shareholders.the tata trusts  comprising charitable organisations controlled by ratan tata  hold a 66% stake in tata sons. the remaining stakes are owned by tata group companies and some tata family members  including ratan tata. earlier in the year  tata trusts said that it would be in the best interest of tata sons to consider buying out the sp group shareholding. mistry’s office said the ruling was disappointing but not surprising. “an appeal on merits will be pursued ” said a release from his office.“the ruling of the national company law tribunal is disappointing although not surprising... we will continue to strive for ensuring good governance and protection of interests of minority shareholders and all stakeholders in tata sons from the wilful brute rule of the majority.”however  a person aware of the plan  said an appeal will be moved. “the next immediate move will be to approach the national company appellate tribunal or nclat… the dismissal of the plea challenging his ouster was not a surprise.”the original petition  filed in december 2016  had alleged breakdown of governance  poor business decisions by tata sons due to interference by ratan tata and soonawala.another of the mistry firms’ contentions was that the tata sons articles of association were biased against the rights of minority shareholders. recent amendments to the articles of association  he alleged  restricted the mistry firms’ right to freely sell shares in the market.in a letter to the directors of tata sons two weeks ago  mistry had sought accountability and information from the board of tata sons. he also questioned the rationale behind the sale of the telecom arm to bharti airtel  debt-driven acquisitions by tata steel and its tie-up with thyssenkrupp  among others.the two-member nclt bench started hearing the case on merit in december last year. it had previously dismissed an earlier petition  saying that the firms weren’t qualified to file a case against tata sons due to insufficient shareholding in the holding company. mistry subsequently won a special permission to do so from the national company law appellate tribunal.</div></div>