<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai:many marketing managers must have felt a shiver of recognition at the story of royal caribbean’s voyager of the seas cruise liner which  after sailing out of sydney  was apparently taken over by 1 300 workers from a kanpur-based gutkha company called kamla pasand.according to the appalled reports of several australian families also travelling on the ship  the men organised raucous parties with women dressed like playboy bunnies  filmed young girls among the other passengers and generally behaved in a boorish way. royal caribbean  it was reported  has apologised profusely and reimbursed these other passengers the cost of their trip.to all of which  many managers must have had two thoughts. the first would have been: “thank god i wasn’t trapped at that dealer meet.”while the men were described as employees  the event sounds more like one of the junkets that companies take their dealers (or possibly sales representatives) on as reward or incentive for sales. in the past  these would have been at local hotels  or at a resort in goa  but it is a sign of the profits that many companies are making that an international trip is now almost imperative.and the second thought that the managers would have had is: “what is everyone complaining about ” if that sounds contradictory or unfeeling for what was clearly an unpleasant time for the other passengers  they should just speak to akhsay bhalla  who has a plastic tank manufacturing unit in punjab.for the last eight years he has been taking his retailers to bangkok and what he sees makes the cruise trip seem tame.“my retailers all belong to small towns in punjab  haryana  j&k; and himachal and they are all middle aged or elderly people ” he says. “the week in bangkok is their let-go time when they are away from family  away from their problems  and there is no one to judge them. you see a completely new side of these gents.” they are clear about their priorities: women and wine.bhalla says they stay in the same hotel  call the same girls over  order the same dishes and just drink right through. on their last trip  the men took a fancy to a particular russian girl and she just moved from room to room throughout the trip making close to rs 5 lakh in six days.bhalla has tried taking them to macau instead  but everyone revolted and just wanted to go to bangkok.sticking to bangkok might make sense  given the story of another large sanitary ware brand that took its dealers to a city in china some years ago. the dealers keen to get some ‘action’ went to a red light area in a shady part of town. goons abducted some of them and demanded a ransom from the group.the company representatives and their local contacts called the police who quickly laid siege to the whole area given the sensitivity of indian tourists getting abducted and the resultant attention it would attract. “the police finally managed to free the dealers but they didn’t return the money. we were too scared to care about money ” said one chandigarh-based dealer who was on that trip.but this kind of behaviour is hardly unique to indians. where those australian reports did seem questionable was the outrage displayed over behaviour that can probably be found easily on the gold coast  the country’s party city in queensland. or in the original home of such behaviour — las vegas  which coined what is probably the motto for all dealer conferences: “what happens in vegas  stays in vegas!”‘kabootarbaazi’sometimes dealer tours can go in directions that even the most experienced marketing managers can’t anticipate. this happened with a large cookware brand that announced a sales scheme with the promise of a london trip if targets were met.one enterprising gentleman from ambala got the brand’s dealership  bought cookware worth the amount that was needed to qualify for the trip  and quickly disposed of the utensils at a 20% discount to another dealer. his loss on the entire initiative was around rs 6 lakh. “the guy stayed with us for six days in london  enjoyed the whole trip  and throughout the trip people kept telling us that he would disappear. and  on the last day  he couldn’t be found. then we realised that his plan all along was to travel on a company junket to escape visa scrutiny due to corporate linkage and then disappear. it’s called kabootarbazi in punjab. he found a cost effective and easy way to migrate illegally ” said a dealer who was on the trip.over-the-top meetsover-the-top conferences are integral to modern sales management. in india  the power wielded by the salesforce went up hugely in categories like alcohol where regular advertising wasn’t allowed. the salesforce was critical here  to push product on overburdened retailers  force restaurants to give their brands a chance and  in general  keep sales flowing. liquor industry salesmen were a notoriously tough bunch — and their conferences  as might be expected given what they were selling  were famously out of control affairs.it doesn’t have to be this way. there’s always one other lure  and that is simply money. dealers are businessmen after all  and salesmen are sharp at calculating their benefits  and in the end the lure of a debauched trip abroad could always be balanced by better sales terms and retail margins. but the truth is that these would probably cost companies more than a package tour with bulk discounts worked out  cheap service provided abroad — when the attractions are alcohol and women  everything else can be skimped.kamla pasand’s only fault was to book their event in a place where others could see it  and not escape elsewhere — and perhaps even this publicity has helped them sign on new dealers eager to take part in the next trip abroad!</div></div>