<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>sachin bansal joined amazon.com as a senior software engineer in 2006. soon he referred binny bansal  with whom he co-founded flipkart later  to amazon. but binny as a colleague did not prove to be a profitable deal for sachin. “one of the stories that cracks us up is how sachin was the one who referred me to amazon and got a big fat bonus. and it gets funnier  because eight months later i quit. and sachin had to cough up the money to pay back amazon ” binny said during a a free-wheeling chat on with toi on thursday at sap labs india’s launch of its second accelerator programme in bengaluru. the referral bonus programme mandated that the referred employee must stay in the company for a certain minimum period.binny also related how he was once rejected by google. after iit-delhi  binny had worked in sarnoff corp  a company doing r&d; in vision technologies. between 2005 and 2006  he applied twice to google for technology roles and was rejected both times. “i was always interested in technology and had a wonderful run in sarnoff. i thought google might be a great fit " he said.one of his key challenges today  binny said  is to convince his wife to purchase fruits and vegetables from flipkart instead of bigbasket. “so everyday  she goes online and buys off bigbasket and i try convincing her about our site. hey  maybe you should try out some of our new features... but no  i still haven’t been able to convince her.” the audience was in splits when binny spoke about some unexpected consequences during their big billion day sales  when sachin and he would do some doorto-door deliveries to understand customers better. “some people don’t recognise us and the conversation is casual. others do  and take photographs. but there was one customer who just wouldn’t let me go. and not just him  but his entire family was keen on stuffing me. so i got plied with chai  mithai; more chai and mithai. and since customer is king  can’t say ‘no’ " he said.about his early life and schooling  binny said it was a surprise to him that he being a person passionate about sports and just okay in studies  went on to join iit. he said the years in iit-delhi still remain some of the best years of his life. “iit-delhi has a unique hostel culture. you were more loyal to your hostel than your department  course or batchmates. the rivalry between the different hostels was intense and played out during sporting events  cultural shows. there would be sloganeering  cheering and anticheering; more anti-cheering than anything. i was in shivalik hostel and the bonds i forged there carried over later on in life. i ended up staying with 6-7 of my former hostel mates when i came to bangalore  till we all moved on or got married ” he said.</div></div>