<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by anto antony and george smith alexanderindian companies have been involved in deals worth a record $97.6 billion this year. top banker jpmorgan chase & co. is predicting more offshore interest in the nation  particularly in technology  media and telecom.walmart inc.’s $16 billion acquisition of a majority stake in indian e-commerce company flipkart online services pvt. ltd. -- a deal jpmorgan advised -- has been the biggest so far  pushing the total past a previous annual peak of $92.3 billion  according to data compiled by bloomberg. india’s bankruptcy process has also spurred activity with more than $26 billion in distressed steel assets coming on the block  while a price war in telecom forced consolidation.“this year  if there is one stand-out product it is really m&a; ” said kalpana morparia  the chief executive officer for south and south east asia at jpmorgan  which climbed to the top spot in india for the first time in at least a decade. “we are seeing some great examples of inbound m&a; and a fair amount of domestic consolidation  largely spurred by the bankruptcy process.”overseas buyers from walmart to france’s schneider electric se have made multi-billion-dollar bets in india to tap into the promise of rising consumption by an increasingly interconnected middle class. the nation’s focus on improving infrastructure and cleaning up $210 billion of soured loans in the banking system has also helped investors brush aside concerns about the economic fall out of a global trade war and rising crude-oil prices.already there are more billion-dollar deals being weighed  as u.k. pharmaceutical giant glaxosmithkline plc examines selling its stake in its local consumer health subsidiary  worth about $3.1 billion  and kraft heinz co. considers the sale of its children’s milk drink brand complan in india  which may fetch about $1 billion.technology  media and telecom along with financial services will probably remain the most active sectors for inbound deal-making this year and next  jpmorgan’s morparia said in an interview.“both play on the core macro and micro themes around consumption and digitization of india and we are still at early stages of evolution of these themes ” she said. “the power of data will play a critical role for india in the next two-to-five years.”jpmorgan headed the league table with a 42 percent share of deals struck  climbing from 10th place in 2017. it was followed by goldman sachs group inc. and citigroup inc  while arpwood capital pvt. was the highest-ranked local banker in 10th position.the role played by financial sponsors such as private equity firms and pension funds in the indian deal space is increasing -- both in terms of selling some investments as well as tying up with local companies to bid for assets on sale through the bankruptcy process. these are not just traditional private-equity funds  which have been in india for the last 20 years  but include longer-term pension funds  said morparia  who is the senior-most woman banker in south asia with more than 43 years of experience in the sector.investments by private equity and venture capital funds rose by nearly 50 percent to $15.2 billion in the first half of this year  compared to $10.4 billion in same period last year  according to an ey report. the number of higher-value deals is also rising with 36 transactions above $100 million  against 20 deals in the year-ago period  the report showed.morparia also shared her views on bond sales and the impact of a trade war:advice to clients looking at overseas bond sales we are telling clients looking at debt issuance to keep on watching the market in case we find a sudden window. one should be in a constant state of readiness.going by my experience  i have not seen the markets being illiquid or not open for a period of time. i am sure it will open up and  if not  people will make a call on whether it is wise to go ahead with 20-30 basis point wider margins.how will trade tensions impact asia we are reacting to the trade war based on some announcements made by the u.s.  while the rest of the world has extreme and great interest in trying to sign unilateral or multilateral deals among themselves. for instance  europe is not saying that they don’t want to deal with asia. i don’t see this impacting our business.i see business picking up due to intra-asia trade. with a relative cooling off of tensions in north korea  if you look at apac countries -- whether it is japan  korea  indonesia  china  india  vietnam -- there are plenty of opportunities for a two-way flow of trade.</div></div>