<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>innovation is progress. whichever way you look at human progress over the millennia  great new innovations have changed the course of human history – be it in business  trade  politics  or even war. commercial innovation is at the heart of all innovative activity – the art of making money  and more of it  is continually sharpened  generating ideas that translate into new ways of meeting consumers’ needs.typically  though  when you think of innovation  what do you visualise  in nine cases out of 10  it would be a great product – either a completely new product  or even an ingenious way of how a product is packaged and sold. in the 10th case  it would probably be an innovator.without doubt  great new products or clever  useful tweaks to existing products are the most visible form of innovation  and have the greatest mindspace. but at the same time  great products don’t just happen by themselves. and they are by no means the only innovative channel. business models can be innovative  and they can put established industry leaders out of  um  business.innovative business models are generated by people who think differently. identifying and encouraging those people requires sharp people processes that lead to such outcomes. ergo  innovative processes are inarguably as key to industry progress as product innovation.the end objective of innovation – be it in business model business process  people  or product – is to impact a company and industry in a positive way  change the way people think  anticipate and behave  and result in greater profits for innovating organisations.that is easier said than done. every organisation tries to innovate; not all succeed. there are those who become benchmarks to peers  whose ideas are championed  and even cloned. they make a difference to the world  to our world. successful organisations sift through hundreds of ideas  pick the right ones  develop them into products with clear go-to-market strategies  and then leverage the innovations for revenue and profit growth.the economic times innovation awards – with sap as presenting partner and bcg india as knowledge partner – is being introduced this year to identify such break through ideas that have made market impact. we look at innovation through multiple lenses (see box on award categories)  so we don’t lose sight of the myriad channels of innovative activity going on all around us.as india marches on with lofty economic goals  the innovative minds and organisations in our midst are the ones that will make a difference. come join us in this revolution. companies with consolidated revenues higher than rs 500 crore in fy 2017-18 can apply.and so can start-ups that started commercial activity after april 1  2013 (there is no revenue benchmark for start-ups). companies are open to apply to multiple categories  and there is no participation fee. to nominate your innovation for the awards  fill in the nomination form at www.etinnovationawards. com. last date for applying is october 18.</div></div>