<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: about a third of the nifty companies  17 to be precise  said in their last financial-year annual reports that they together received 3 508 whistle-blower complaints  pointing to an increasing use and awareness of rules that institutionalise internal vigilance in corporate india.the total number for previous year was 3 139 complaints.with 1 526 cases  wipro leads the league table. excluding the it major  the other 16 nifty companies have seen a 37% year-on-year jump in the whistleblower complaints.to be sure  the reporting and handling of these complaints  however  are dependent on the culture of transparency at each company.“indian companies are typically reactive  and not proactive or affirmative. while they do not discourage whistleblowing  vigil mechanism is not yet an active agenda ” said milind sarwate  an independent director on the boards of several entities. “companies do tend to follow a checklist approach. many companies could even be happy if there are no complaints.”incidentally  40% of the nifty 50 companies made no mention of the whistle-blower cases received in the past year  while seven have mentioned not receiving any complaint at all.infosys said it received 1 168 cases related to disciplinary issues  but the software bellwether did not say how many among these were whistle-blower complaints. similarly  five public sector companies mentioned the handling of several vigilance cases  with no separate list of the whistleblower complaints.although wipro tops the list  there has been a 10% reduction in the whistle-blower complaints received by the technology major in fy18. “last financial year witnessed a drop in complaints related to recruitment frauds perpetrated by external entities and reported by job aspirants ” said a wipro spokesperson. “that apart  improved processes and a more robust grievance handling mechanism saw a reduction in workplace-related concerns.”nature of complaintsmost common complaints are about corruption allegations and improper conduct at workplace. occasionally  sexual harassment issues may be raised subtly through the whistle-blower mechanism. “complaints received by companies are generally regarding financial impropriety for personal gain or for meeting organisational targets or personal impropriety ” said a partner with a corporate law firm.cases of financial impropriety include accounting fraud  embezzlement  procurement fraud  conflict of interest  bribery and corruption  fraudulent claims  theft of confidential data or physical assets  insider trading  tax evasion  violation of tax laws and false employee credentials.at times  the number of complaints received is high but on investigation  quite a few are found to be irrelevant. for instance  71% of the cases received by wipro were resolved through the engagement of hr or mediation  or closed as these were unsubstantiated.airtel received 24 allegations of corruption or bribery. upon investigation  charges were substantiated in seven cases. similarly  in case of bharti infratel  allegations were substantiated only in five of the 27 cases received. indusind bank received 12 complaints  of which nine were not found to be true.“we do see a number of false alarms — right from frivolous complaints such as coffee machine not working to complaints related to processes that ought to be directed to hr or respective functions ” said arpinder singh  partner & head-india and emerging markets — forensic and integrity services of ey.still  large listed companies cannot afford to ignore whistle-blower complaints. the companies act 2013 and sebi listing rules make it compulsory for listed companies and certain other entities to have a whistle-blower mechanism.“besides the legal compulsions  companies realise that people now have many avenues to blow the whistle. with social media and international regulators  complaints can no longer be swept under the carpet ” said ey’s singh. last year  the us securities & exchange commission received 14 whistle-blower tip-offs from india. the recent case of icici bank has underscored the significance of a single relevant whistle-blower complaint.according to the latest annual report of state bank of india  a fallout of the whistle-blower policy was the penalty of .`40 lakh imposed by the central bank on the lender’s domestic operations over the handling of forged notes.multiple complaint sourcescomplaints come from various sources  such as current and former employees  vendors  business associates  third parties  and even in some cases family members of vendors (that have an axe to grind with the person accused). furthermore  a number of complaints are filed anonymously; for instance  about a fifth of the complaints received by wipro was filed so.according to a larsen & toubro spokesperson  a major portion of the complaints the company receives is through anonymous sources. although the whistle-blower policy emphasises on named complaints  the company’s management has taken a stand to accept anonymous complaints as well  based on the merits of the allegations.“usually  if there is a very senior person involved and the allegations are of a delicate nature  the complaints are likely to be anonymous ” said sarwate.in one of the companies where he was the director  sarwate came across a series of anonymous complaints against the managing director. the allegations were varied  ranging from indiscipline to sexual harassment.“as the chairman of the audit committee  i had to deal with the issue in a balanced manner and ensure objectivity ” he said.creating a culture of transparency and educating stakeholders about the significance of whistleblowing is a challenge for companies currently. the next level of challenge will be to figure out ways of communicating with whistle blowers who are demanding in their follow-ups.“i came across a whistle blower who never gave up — constantly asking for updates  expressing displeasure with the action taken by the company and dictating what should be done ” ey’s singh said.such persistence can be quite tricky for companies to handle.</div></div>