<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi | kolkata: as #me-too forces india inc to take a more substantive approach to workplace sexual harassment  women in the corporate world feel more empowered but remain cautious at the same time.“finally”— that’s what many women executives et spoke with said  referring to companies promising sterner responses to old and new cases. but they also wonder whether the change will be permanent once #metoo loses its current potency.women executives see #me-too as a platform to speak up about their experiences  and believe they are more likely to be heard now. they also feel it will deter at least some future harassers  because of the fear that they may be called out in public.“despite a strong law to prevent sexual harassment  we never had real conversations. it was hush-hush. now that has changed and conversations are taking place across workplaces ” says sairee chahal  founder ceo  sheroes  a womenonly communities platform.some like archana bisht  director at 1 to 1 help.net  a professional counselling and wellness services firm  see a tremendous shift. “this focus has given a lot of courage to women  especially to those who have been harassed by people in powerful positions. but this is just the beginning. a lot needs to be done.”a mid-level manager in a startup recounted how difficult it has been for her colleagues to report bullying and harassment in past and present organisations. “it takes a lot of courage to speak up as you may not get the support from your managers. women are scared to be labelled as trouble-makers if they do complain. now with so many women raising their voice  it gives a ray of hope.”more courage to open up will follow concrete action on reported cases. says suruchi wagh  chief product officer  jombay: “the more action is taken on cases that have been named  the more empowered women will feel.” complykaro  which specialises in prevention of sexual harassment (posh) compliance  conducted an employee sensitisation workshop for an entertainment company soon after the #metoo movement exploded on social media in india.vishal kedia  director of complykaro  said that all employees present at the workshop — many of them women —felt that fear among male employees would now increase dramatically. at the same time  there were concerns that it could be misused. “they felt that whoever has come forward should try to prove it and take legal recourse. whether it’s an internal committee or court  women should pursue their right to justice ” said kedia.an executive who had complained about her harasser said the internal committee hadn’t been supportive and she wasn’t happy with the way things were handled. the committee had tried to dissuade her about pursuing the case  she said. but now  she says  “my hope is that committees will become more vigilant because they would be scared of bad press”.another employee  harassed during her stint at an indian financial services major  said when she and some of her colleagues reported lewd comments made to them  the ‘boys club’ came down hard. the women found themselves picked on by bosses about trivial issues. some resigned just to get out.“it will take a long time for things on the ground to change ” this woman executive said. “managements need to become much more sensitive.” also  for the change to take root  people need it to see action being taken all around  with friends  colleagues coming forward. “that will instill confidence that there is merit in taking it forward”  said wagh.rituparna chakraborty  co-founder of teamlease services  argues companies should steer clear of hiring anyone around whom there are such allegations  no matter how brilliant the person is. “we also need to think about a grievance redressal handling mechanism beyond the icc (internal complaints committee). there have been instances where people have approached the icc and have been dissuaded. in that case  there are alternatives that need to be thought of ” she said. but the real test  all these women professionals said  is months down the line when #metoo may not be in headlines. will offenders be punished and victims protected </div></div>