<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: a legal battle has broken out for the estate of the late russi mody  former chairman and managing director of tata steel. mody’s nephew jamshed mody and friend basant misra have staked claim to his assets. mody and his wife siloo had no children and there are two wills of the former tata honcho before the bombay high court. jamshed  the son of mody’s brother  is relying on a will dated may 10  2007 that names him and his wife feroza as the inheritors to the estate. while misra has staked claim to the estate based on a will dated february 5  2003. misra has alleged that the 2007 will was “obtained by fraud and by exercising undue influence”. he has said that mody was “not of sound and disposing state of mind  memory and understanding” when the 2007 will was executed. mody  who is credited with laying the foundation of what tata steel is today  had passed away in may 2014 at the age of 96.the main dispute between jamshed and misra is over a plush property in south mumbai and the assets housed in it. mody held a 30% stake in the residential property  the cliff  which is located at carmichael road in mumbai. the other owners of the cliff are mody’s brother (jamshed’s father) and external parties. currently  residential property prices in that area range from rs 85 000 to rs 1 lakh per square foot. it could not be immediately ascertained the value and the size of the estate.following jamshed’s petition  the court had directed a receiver to carry out an inventory of all the movable assets housed at the cliff. the receiver is expected to submit the report to the court next week.according to sources  misra is an nri businessman and has been occupying the first floor and a part of the third floor of the cliff for at least three decades. misra has claimed that everything in the house belonged to him and that he had acquired them over many decades. “he is not necessarily in a position to produce receipts or evidence of something that he may have acquired decades ago. he may well not remember how he came by it. but he knows that it is his. he disputes that anything in the residence at the cliff is or was part of the mody’s estate ” misra’s lawyer had told the court. the movable assets include artefacts  paintings  antiques and artworks.jamshed  on the other hand  asserted that misra has no bequest to the movable properties and has requested the court to restrain him from interfering with the possession of these assets. jamshed said that some of the movable articles were from his grandparents’ mansion spirospero  also located at carmichael road. jamshed has submitted a copy of a magazine article from the 1940s that features these items.the court recently appointed jamshed and feroza as administrators to mody’s financial investments that include shares  policies  mutual funds and fixed deposits. this order has been challenged by misra  which will be heard on october 8. </div></div>