<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>the pace at which technology is impacting jobs is generating a lot of excitement and interest among corporate leaders but the investment levels don’t yet match the interest levels  says eva sage-gavin  senior md of global talent and organisation practice at accenture. in an interview with et  gavin talks about how accenture transformed its long-term talent strategy in response to industry disruption. edited excerpts:how is technology transforming jobs  what are the new roles that are emerging there are three kinds of new skills that are emerging—trainers  explainers and sustainers. if we think about data analytics  artificial intelligence and machine learning  a human being has to write the algorithm—that’s the job of trainers and then training for accuracy  prediction  having data learning occur. the explainers help visualise data to abstract insight. the sustainers have huge technology capabilities to be able to keep that technology enablement continuous. those are the brand-new skills that are interesting because they use more of human capacity than routine roles that machines are great at with accuracy.new roles would mean new expertise  new knowledge and new talent strategy. how prepared are companies to respond to the changing environment we did a survey which shows that there is a tremendous excitement and awareness of the impact of technology but the investment levels in what will be needed don’t yet match the interest levels. the most competitive  progressive companies are seeing this economic opportunity and the idea that lifelong learning  continuous skill enhancement and this idea of keeping one current and relevant are the new emerging themes. yet  a disconnect between workers’ embrace of ai and their employers’ efforts to prepare workers puts potential growth at risk. while a majority (54%) of business leaders say human-machine collaboration is important to their strategic priorities  only 3% say their organisation plans to significantly increase its investment in reskilling their workers in the next three years.what is accenture’s long-term talent strategy in response to industry disruption we are enabling specialisation at scale to ensure our people remain relevant and at the forefront of technology and industry. we have moved away from a ‘one size fits all’ curriculum  and through accenture connected learning  we are now providing learning that is highly customised and specialised to meet our clients' needs. we recently redefined our leadership dna against which we develop and assess our leaders. this dna is infused across all levels  starting with our 7 000 managing directors. we invest heavily in building our pipeline of leaders internally and externally. finally  we have transformed our business and culture to one that is innovation-led—with diverse talent profiles  people and multiple acquisitions in the past five years.accenture talks about the missing middle as a new category of jobs that will be created in the future. what does it mean every industry has at least one example of what we call middle skills jobs that may require a baseline education or credential or skill  with training they can now be much more sophisticated. with trend  pattern  data analytics skills  that individual now has market value that has increased  and their skills are now moving up from baseline skills to middle skills to more advanced skills  and it is changing their economic value  their market availability and with technology  they can be virtually accessed  so they are no longer geography bound.how is technology transforming the role of the human resource (hr) function it [technology] is having one of the most extraordinary levels of impact on hr. we often talk about consumerism  consumer insights  trends and patterns. now  chief hr officers have data science and analytics capabilities that we didn’t have before. the biggest shift is in the idea of lagging indicators have now become predictive  and there is so much research about some of the principles of consumerisms being applied to employee or your ecosystem. a simple example is engagement. earlier  everybody did their annual surveys  got their score  picked their three big goals and put a strategy in place to shift. now  you can get instantaneous feedback. just like the cfo has the financial health  the chro now has the employee or talent system health  and every area of talent system can have a dashboard and an indicator often times instantaneous.</div></div>