<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by harish bhaton july 29  we celebrated the 114th birth anniversary of j r d tata. eighty years ago in 1938  jrd was appointed as chairman of the tata group  which he led for over 50 years  with an unrelenting quest for excellence. many great tata enterprises were born during his tenure  including tata motors  tata consultancy services and titan. the sunday times of london said this of him in 1951: “highly strung  but tenacious of purpose  he works quickly and intensively. his passion for accuracy and interest in detail are often disturbing to colleagues and to his own health. he does not disguise his contempt for superficial knowledge and glib opinions.”yet  if there is one aspect of jrd that outweighs his drive for perfection and his significant business achievements  it is his abiding love for the country. three stories bring this to life.in 1944  jrd did something quite unique for a corporate leader. along with other leading indian industrialists  including g d birla and kasturbhai lalbhai  he helped craft the bombay plan for india’s industrial growth. this was several years before the government’s own first five-year plan was conceived. the bombay plan created a storm  because it was ahead of its time  calling for massive investments in roads  railways and power.on account of its radical proposals  the plan caused great discomfiture to nearly everyone — british rulers  leftists  gandhians and many businessmen. the economist magazine called the plan “a commendable piece of enterprise”. many years later  president r venkataraman recalled the bombay plan as one of jrd’s contributions to india. most importantly  this initiative reflected jrd’s view that industry should play a key role in national development  a theme which has always been central to the tata group. in october 1947  even as the partition of india led to waves of refugees coming into the country  j r d tata wrote to the prime minister jawaharlal nehru  suggesting that a national fund for relief and distress should be started in the name of the pm. he said that the tata group would be happy to make a substantial grant to such a fund. he also wrote  somewhat provocatively: “if you have no such intention  would you advise me as to what we should do ” however  nehru agreed entirely with jrd’s suggestion: “after consulting my colleagues here  we have arrived at some decisions.” thus was established the prime minister’s national relief fund.a third story is j r d tata’s founding of tata airlines in 1932. driven by his own passion for aviation (he was the first to qualify as a pilot in india) and his belief that air transport would be critical for the nation’s future  he built an enterprise that placed the country firmly on the aviation map. speaking in mumbai after launching the airline  he said: “i want to express  perhaps unnecessarily  the unbounded confidence we have in the ultimate future of air transport in india.”the then director general of civil aviation wrote about this venture in the times of india: “scarcely anywhere else in the world was there an air service operating without support from the government. it could only be done by throwing on the operator the financial risk. tata sons were prepared to take that risk.”all these three stories illustrate bharat ratna j r d tata’s core belief that “no success or achievement in material terms is worthwhile unless it serves the needs or interests of the country”. even as we mark the 150th anniversary of the tata group this year  we pay tribute to an icon who is truly a jewel of india.(the writer is brand custodian  tata sons)</div></div>