<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>a new economic growth model driven by technology and entrepreneurship will deliver prosperity for millions of indians entering the job market as the reliance on government recedes  said participants at the et ceo roundtable in mumbai on tuesday.“we have to think of job creation not as 10 companies creating a thousand jobs each  but about a million companies creating one extra job each ” said infosys chairman nandan nilekani. “historically  emerging economies used manufacturing as a way of growth and job creation. in india’s case  it will be domestic service-led growth.”the role of industry has to increase through the skilling of employees and the importance of services will have to be recognised if india has to leapfrog economic development  skipping the conventional models that relied on cost arbitrage and manufacturing.“we have a huge number of graduates and the fact of the matter is employability is very low ” said harish manwani  independent director  tata sons. “we do not have quality of talent. we need more itis than iits. only 5% of our employed workforce actually gets proper skill training.”domestic demand is strong and banks are willing to fund any project that is viable while the rupee slide and other macro factors may just be temporary blips  said hdfc bank md aditya puri. as far as equitable development goes  the universal basic income model and welfare policies followed by the nordic countries may well be the way for india too  said kalpana morparia  jp morgan ceo for south and southeast asia.the face of rural india meanwhile is changing with lifestyle playing a more important role.“in our business  it is not about cash or no cash now  but the convenience and lifestyle ” said paytm founder vijay shekhar sharma.operating on the basis of old principles won’t be enough to take advantage of the demographic dividend  because the narrative of growth and prosperity has changed in the past few years.“the narrative has changed from roti  kapda  makaan 10 years back to leisure  wellness  entertainment ” said kotak mahindra bank managing director uday kotak.nilekani  manwani  puri  morparia  sharma and kotak were part of the jury that decided on the winners of the deloitte et awards for corporate excellence as were legal luminary cyril shroff of cyril amarchand mangaldas and oyo rooms founder ritesh agarwal. deloitte ceo n venkatram joined them for the roundtable. the et award winners will be announced in thursday edition.despite india being the fastest growing economy in the world  many believe not all sections of society have benefited as enough jobs haven’t been generated. nearly 90% of them are in the informal sector  which keeps incomes low and makes employment difficult to quantify.“i also believe that we shouldn’t just rely on the larger industries to give us the jobs ” said venkatram. “a majority of the jobs will come from the middle and small scale sectors and that is something that we need to concentrate on.”the indian economy grew 8.2% in the june quarter  exceeding expectations. the government said that this showed that india had overcome the impact of goods and services tax implementation. crisil estimates india’s gdp will grow 7.5% this fiscal.india’s hinterland is gathering a momentum of its own with spending habits and consumption changing rapidly.“places like bareilly  meerut as well as places in the northeast and south — nobody ever invested in those places ” said agarwal. “when we invested in hotels there  we saw that a significant number of business professionals… instead of taking a train at night are willing to stay one more day for trade purposes. in physical infrastructure  it is our responsibility to over-invest for the future rather than just relying on the government.”indian business conditions have also transformed in the past years with promoters being more careful about their companies.“earlier notion of losing one’s company only via equity and acquisition has changed and people realise they could lose control of their company if they don’t repay debt ” said shroff.</div></div>