<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: when the reserve bank of india (rbi) hired former national securities depository ltd (nsdl) executive sudha balakrishnan as its first ever chief financial officer (cfo)  the move was another indicator of the growing demand for specialised financial skill sets from india inc.at least 50 listed companies have changed their cfos in the past 10 to 15 months  according to top executive search firms  and their compensation packages have jumped by over 40%  almost reaching the salary levels of chief executive officers.cfo compensation is now in the range of rs 2 crore to rs 5 crore compared with rs 1.5 crore to rs 3 crore two or three years ago.cfos are now managing the ‘moral requirements’ of an organisation — in terms of financial governance  said harsh goenka  chairman of the rpg group. they are as involved as ceos today and it’s extremely important to get a good calibre talent for that role  he said. rpg recently hired a group cfo.with more companies going public and private equity-funded companies coming of age to build size and scale  the need for cfos has increased  said r suresh  founder of insist executive search  a company that placed 15 cfos in listed companies over the past few months. the search firm just closed a cfo role for a domestic pharmaceutical company for rs 5 crore.investor expectations from cfos  tougher compliance requirements and demand from top startups have also led to a churn in the market  search firms and financial experts said.compensation packages are starting to match the growing challenges that the new-age cfo has to face  said santrupt misra  director  group human resources of the aditya birla group.“the business environment is complex and they are being brought in from diverse sectors with a bigger profile and skills that compensation packages have to match ” misra said.infosys is yet to pick a successor for md ranganath  the cfo who is stepping down in november. ranganath quit in august  after replacing rajiv bansal in 2015.there is greater pressure on cfos to be the “investor’s representative” within the company management  officials said. experts said there is a massive rise in the responsibility of key managerial personnel in the companies act and the conservative and risk-averse are moving on.“the aspirations of cfos of successful companies are rising dramatically and they are seeking board positions like never before ” said shailesh haribhakti  a chartered accountant who is also on the boards of some companies.“rather than being information and insight providers and minders of the store  they want to take the strategic calls.”experts said cfos don’t want to remain in conflicting roles that go against their ethics and practices. they prefer to quit than continue. “we are held accountable not only for our tenures but even beyond that ” said a cfo who resigned from a blue chip company recently.milind sarwate  former cfo of marico and now an independent director on some company boards  said it is clearly a sellers’ market and good cfos will command greater premium. “there is growing focus on the cfo’s ability to create and sustain corporate value  through both business performance management and governance.some of them may be too stressed to continue ” he said. traditionally  cfos used to ‘fix’ things. today  they are more like ‘co-pilots’ in the business and need to be aware of compliance and other issues  said suresh of insist executive search. cfos need to handle the growth of companies by not only bringing in new capital but also allocating growth to various projects.several cfos have quit in the past year  including gagandeep singh bedi of fortis healthcare and chandrakant karkare of gitanjali gems  which is embroiled in the rs 11 400-crore punjab national bank scam. bharat kedia of zee entertainment enterprises quit in april and hathway cable and datacom’s vineet garg put in his papers in march 2018. indian fashion retail chain shoppers stop said its cfo sanjay chakravarti stepped down in december. cfos are willing to take up challenging roles even in smaller outfits  which give them a different work experience and provide substantial compensation.the financial function is becoming more complex – from a pure accounting and book-keeping role  its getting more strategic and business-oriented.infrastructure  energy  healthcare  consumer services and ecommerce are further generating demand for cfos with a strong focus on fundraising and experience in investor relations.“good cfos  like any good talent  are scarce. some of the recent churn is suggestive of that. in many situations  cfos could also have a very different stance to organisational issues. it may also lead to exit decisions” said prabir jha  president and global chief people officer at cipla.</div></div>