<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>aditya birla group chairman kumar mangalam birla thursday said the conglomerate is looking at a capital investment of usd 5 billion over the next three years across its businesses both in the home market and abroad. he said the group has already spent about usd 3.5 billion in the past two years across various businesses. "our capex plans over the next three years is about usd 5 billion across our businesses both in the country as well as in the us. aleris  which novelis is acquiring  is also another aluminium rolled product player  will attract around usd 3 billion of this projected capex " birla told the economist india summit. the birlas in july announced that it would snap up the us-based aluminium player aleris for around usd 2.58 billion. the rest of the capex will go into the cement  financial services  chemicals and the fibre businesses both overseas and in the country  he told a panel discussion. the group is looking at growth across all areas of its businesses but most of it will come from financial services  cement  metals  garment and retail verticals  he said. when asked the riskiest decision the group has taken so far  birla said it was the usd 10 billion acquisition of novelis by hindalco in 2008. "in 2008  we acquired novelis. hindalco is into primary aluminium  and so we wanted to go downstream  which is closer to the customer and also it insulates you from cyclicality of commodity. "i think this usd 10-billion acquisition by far was one of the riskiest things that we have done. we put a lot at stake and it was actually larger than hindalco. but all worked out well for us " he said. sounding bullish about the domestic economy he said  "as per our house view  we are looking at a gdp growth of 7.3 -7.5 per cent in fy19." though he said the fundamentals of the economy are strong  he listed the continuing rupee fall and the spike in crude oil prices as problem areas. calling for free trade  he said any sort of protectionism creates uncertainty and impacts growth and investments. "we would like to believe that this current round of tariff wars is something that will pass. i am given to understand that it has already impacted global growth by 0.2 per cent  and if it continues for the next couple of months it will impact growth globally by 0.5 per cent " he said. he also sounded cautious on government imposing import duty on certain items to safeguard domestic market  saying it has to be done on a case by case basis. "you can't have a one-for-all-kind of a solution. each commodity has its own issues and you have got to look at whether there is dumping or whether it requires non-fiscal trade barriers. so  it is a very commodity by commodity situation " birla said. birla  who is on board of many prestigious education institutions  said private sector participation in the sector is still required. "there is a lot to be done in secondary and higher education space  as well as in the vocational training area. from a business point of view  some of these are very attractive business opportunities as well " he said.</div></div>