<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: tata group will complete balance-sheet commitments  including write-offs and capital infusion in group companies  by march 2019  said a person with knowledge of the progress on the conglomerate’s strategic blueprint as authored by tata sons chairman n chandrasekaran. “next fiscal onward  our focus will be on growth and cash flows will stay ahead of the capital expenditure ” the person said.chandrasekaran seems to have gained confidence of tata sons’ board and its largest shareholder  tata trusts  after about 18 months on the job. among other things  he’s found a resolution for tata teleservices  which was struggling to stay afloat amid competition and heavy debt—bharti airtel is in the process of taking over its mobile services business.“the only possibility was to hawk it and (he) could not do anything in the business environment he took over with the business losing money and interest rising steadily ” said investment banker and managing director arpwood capital rajeev gupta. “if it was two years back  things would have been different.”the tata trusts have backed the chairman’s plan to provide capital to strengthen the balance sheet and capture future growth. the holding company of the diversified conglomerate received around rs 27 000 crore from two share buybacks by the group’s cash cow tata consultancy services.armed with capital  chandra is forging ahead with his plan that’s underscored by the vision of the group’s founders. he has assured group companies of full backing for robust scalable plans that will deliver returns within a stipulated period. for example  tata steel has purchased bankrupt bhushan steel  which has 5 million tonnes of capacity  and is competing with rival jsw steel for bhushan power and steel.“purchase of steel companies would not have happened but for the conviction of chandra ” said gupta of arpwood.this will give tata steel the muscle it needs to benefit from the growth cycle that’s kicking off  said a senior tata steel executive. the company had previously taken almost two decades to build a 3 million steel plant in gopalpur  bogged down by bureaucratic hurdles and opposition from environmental activists. tata sons has approved an investment plan of rs 10 161 crore to support finance  insurance  defence  realty and retail businesses  sectors chandrasekaran is aggressively betting on  et had earlier reported. “we have to create a model to make money ” said a senior executive. “first we have to get the direction right and then comes velocity.”former tata sons directors backed the chairman’s vision. “the strategy is now stronger and has torque and direction  given the changed business environment globally ” said r gopalakrishnan  a former tata sons director. “the best strategies remain single-minded but are continuously subject to reprioritisation and refreshment.” the fresh capital comes with riders on delivering returns. “there is clear pressure to deliver ” another person close to the plan said. “chandra wants loyalty to accountability and performance.” companies need to have aggressive growth plans in place by year end. “it will be no more incremental growth ” the executive said. fund managers said a clear sense of direction gave confidence to investors. “there are strategic decisions taken to deal with niggling issues  there is significant long-term allocation of resources to scale up businesses ” said gopal agarwal  senior fund manager and head of macro strategy at dsp blackrock investment managers. “going ahead  the group needs to be consistent and nimble  backed with balanced aggression in the domestic market.” at least five top mutual funds have added significantly to their tata holdings during chandrasekaran’s tenure. aditya birla amc  for instance  has spent .`1 105 crore to add to its tata steel holdings during the period  a rise of 211%. tata global beverages has also seen a rise in investment. chandra is said to be building on ratan tata’s legacy. “through his several initiatives over the last 25 years  ratan tata modernised and refreshed the group vison and strategy ” said a former tata sons director. “chandra has adhered to the strategy  but has focused management attention on execution… he not only demands delivery  he does so with urgency. this should produce better results  given the changed business environment globally.” as of july 31  tata sons’ standalone cash and cash equivalents were about rs 5 587 crore. “there will be increased participation in tata group companies’ investment programmes in sectors such as financial services  retail  consumer  infrastructure  realty  defence and aerospace ” said subodh rai  senior director  crisil ratings. “tata sons’ debt to market value of investments ratio has increased over the last 12 months due to the increased level of investments in group entities  including tata teleservices.” the group is not without challenges  including tata motors and tata power. while the jaguar land rover (jlr) unit was added to chandrasekaran’s to do list after a few months of his joining  its parent tata motors is debt-laden and grappling for a solution. jlr lost operating leverage due to a combination of slowing demand and higher capital expenditure that pulled down cash flows and profit. adding to this are environmental concerns over diesel vehicles in europe  the impact of brexit  technological disruptions and automakers moving to shared technologies because of heavy investments entailed. “given competitive intensity  we expect profitability of this segment to lag volume growth ” said kshitij kaji  analyst at edelweiss. “tata motors continues to invest in a new platform due for launch in 2019... success of this platform is a key monitorable. in commercial vehicles  the risk is of further market share loss.” the group is betting on future models by investing rs 1.2 lakh crore in jlr and rs 7 000 crore in tata motors by 2021. tata power  which primarily generates power from coal  is turning to non-renewable energy  which is attracting investor attention  although the mundra ultra mega power project is a drain. “the loss-making legacy mundra project remains a drag for tata power with its huge debt  recording massive losses each day with rising coal prices ” an executive told et. “right now we don’t have a solution... we are waiting for the government to find a solution.”</div></div>