<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>driving a dealwhile the committee of creditors was huddled in a crucial meeting to decide the fate of essar steel  jsw’s headquarters saw a regal rolls royce glide on to campus at the bandra kurla complex in mumbai. naturally  everyone was eager to see which vip had come visiting. turns out it was ravi ruia and his nephew angshuman. sajjan jindal has been playing white knight as the ruias fight to retain their last big family jewel but we can only guess at what was discussed between them on that day. anyhow  hours later  the company’s lenders chose arcelormittal as their h1 preferred bidder but then the ruias dramatically countered that by offering to clear all outstanding dues.#hetoo joins the rankshis attempts to enter the rajya sabha as an independent mp had been as controversial as his showdown with a garrulous gent and showman at a plush rooftop bar in mumbai. but london-based businessman anshuman misra has always been a mysterious high roller who counts top politicians and billionaires among his pals. naturally  his latest move to support the #metoo movement in india has raised many eyebrows in the corridors of power. “i am setting up a fund for any woman who has a credible case to take these monsters to court… i will be contacting leading law firms on indian soil to place them on a retainer to file cases around the country ” announced the feisty nri. okay then.manhattan transferwe are well familiar with tata boss n chandrasekaran’s marathon habit. an avid runner  he has participated in all the major events around the world. now wife lalitha is also stepping up. a keen athlete herself  she’s participated in many half marathons already but next week will see her doing the full 42 km (or 26 miles) at the new york marathon that’s sponsored by tcs. now that’s a true power couple.research scholarswhen ratan tata  nadir godrej  jayant sinha  ashish dhawan and rajive kaul go back to class  what do they learn  some new formula about venture capital investing or philanthropy or perhaps some nifty boardroom manoeuvre — we’re not sure. they were all at harvard this month. among those missing were rahul bajaj  his son-inlaw manish kejriwal and the dapper anand mahindra — then the power circle would have been complete. turns out these south asia alumni of harvard business school were all attending an international research symposium. new horizonsatul sud  an investment banker who’s put together deals for several indian conglomerates  has switched to entrepreneurship himself — importing foods from abroad and supplying to leading hotels in the country. meanwhile  he’s also converted his office in mumbai’s downtown area into a bookstore.madras cafenew delhi is quietly observing the political turmoil in colombo for now but veteran reliance man and parliamentarian parimal nathwani took to twitter and congratulated mahinda rajapaksa on his return to power. he even posted a picture of their meeting in delhi some months ago  along with subramanian swamy. “let’s hope it will strengthen ties between the two countries ” he wrote. rajapaksa  perceived to be far closer to china than india  has had a bittersweet relationship with new delhi after mega contracts were handed out to chinese groups during his last stint. perhaps  there will now be a change of heart. on a new axishis abrasive demeanour  especially with his own team  had been the talk of mumbai’s financial circles for years until he left his high-profile job with a global bank. now  we hear his brief stint with a local shop that itself is going through a transition has also abruptly come to an end and he’s trying get back to an asian franchise that’s looking to raise its game. we wish him well but perhaps some brushing up on the soft skills would go a long way. pep talkthis private equity fund has been the subject of speculation ever since the liquidity crisis hit the markets. we wrote about people exits and its portfolio supposedly coming under strain in this column a few weeks ago. at its recent offsite down south  the fund’s boss was busy boosting morale  rubbishing fears of any bust-up or a shakedown  a little birdy tells us. at the same time  he’s keen to sniff out the deep throat who he feels is responsible for all the leaks. one of india’s leading airlines  which is battling cash shortages and high costs  was offered a solution by a global investment banker — a rights issue. the carrier’s middle east partner was said to be keen on subscribing to such an issue  which would have helped the airline stay afloat. but the indian promoter  who owns a majority stake  rejected the idea of putting in more of his cash. the search for a saviour continues.</div></div>