<div><div><h2>Suits & Sayings: Wackiest whispers and murmurs in corporate corridors & policy parlours</h2></div><div>some real estate developers must have defaulted on loans made by the nonbanking finance company (nbfc) he runs and the sector as a whole has been in the grip of a liquidity squeeze. but that hasn t stopped this boss from purchasing a new home for around rs 40 crore in a part of mumbai that also boasts of presence of several other top bankers. of course he ll have comfort from the fact that his former indian boss who was the head of a german bank that s struggling to regain its lost glory has invested in his company. he s arguably one of the most politically astute businessmen in the country more comfortable in the corridors of power than perhaps in his mumbai boardroom. under attack from the opposition we hear now wants to tweak his business channel and up the political quotient especially in the evening news band. a veteran journo is coming on board and the countdown has already begun we are told. perfect timing you may argue as election fever grips the country. that the group is looking to monetise part of its mumbai airport holding is well known. but did you know a bigwig who had only just made his big-bang business entry in the financial capital was also approached to explore his interest level in the marquee asset  turns out some of his team members have always fancied an airport investment no matter how hard it gets to make money in such a regulated sector. we wonder if the conversation is still hot or the sellers balked at his insistence on taking complete control. the stock market chatterati have been wondering if the promoter of a leading financial services firm has made a deal with a public market focussed fund to warehouse his own stock and help him overcome immediate liquidity needs. apparently he has even promised assured returns to be settled offshore. such deals are likely to be regarded askance by the regulators and the firm has been facing a hard time but as they say desperate times can call for desperate measures. the owner of a successful private sector bank whose plan to reduce his stake through a new financial product hadn t gone down well with the reserve bank of india (rbi) recently met some 7o high net worth individuals highlighting the institution s growth plans. is the low-profile banker known for calling a spade a spade rolling out a plan to trim his stake to abide by the regulator s order  tyeb mehta s painting durga mahisasura mardini was sold for $2.9 million at boundless india sotheby s maiden auction in india last week. we are told it belonged to the private collection of a leading media tycoon ever since it was commissioned from the artist in the early 1990s. the aesthete known for his passion for the arts apparently had bought the entire lot of around 20 canvases from the master himself. we are not sure what prompted him to part with his prized collection. this brash young founder who suddenly finds himself in the middle of a rather awkward situation has approached the powers that be to help him out of the pickle he finds himself in. at a time when probity in one s personal life is as important as professional deeds we gather he s been having sleepless nights since the people he turned to sent him back with a lukewarm response. after  a birla is carrying on the desi legacy at the dazzling le bal des debutantes in paris the launch pad of choice for several billionaire debutantes from around the world. shloka birla the teenage daughter of avanti and yash birla posed for the last week along with ananya raje scindia the daughter of politician jyotiraditya scindia and priya raje. kids of hollywood a listers global tycoons ceos and presidents have been dominating this byinvitation-only exclusive couture gala. india is clearly coming of age.</div></div>