<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: the new world requires a new kind of leadership. with a sharp focus on creating relevant leaders  the $63-billion unilever is redefining its standards of leadership  which is currently being rolled out in india as well. in addition  the consumer products giant has simplified its performance management system and has done away with the contentious ‘bell curve’ to assess its employees. instead  it is adopting a more ‘human’ approach and making large investments in employee well-being  skilling and people development  while also embracing technology in a big way to reduce recruitment costs.the new standards of leadership at the british-dutch transnational consumer products company has two aspects — the inner game and the outer game. the inner game includes a sense of purpose  learning agility and a personal mastery on resilience to cope with challenges  while the outer game covers attributes such as passion for higher performance  business acumen  consumer love and being a talent catalyst. in an exclusive interaction with toi  leena nair (49)  the first woman — and also the youngest — chief hr officer of unilever  said  “we believe your inner game is going to matter as much  if not more  than your outer game. when you are faced with a difficult situation  the person with a learning agility and resilience is going to find the answers. when times are tough  it’s the inner game that is going to come through strongly. we are assessing leaders on these factors.”unilever  which spends around $100 million on leadership development and skilling  is running workshops in india as well to roll out the new standards of leadership for all its senior leaders.nair  who is on an official visit to india  which is one of unilever’s top markets  believes while access to financial capital is becoming easier  access to human capital is getting tougher. “in today’s world  if a ceo is not spending 50% of the time on people agenda  there’s a real problem. the soft stuff is the hard stuff for the next 10-20 years. the only competitive advantage a company has are its people — their ideas and creativity ” said nair  who reports directly to chairman paul polman  and travels extensively to cover 119 countries where unilever operates.nair  who believes looking after people makes real business sense  walks the talk as she presents statistics on how unilever’s healthcare costs have fallen by 18% over the last few years following consistent wellness initiatives  which have resulted in healthier employees and better productivity. “for every dollar we invest in wellness  we get a return of $2.44 ” said nair.what’s more  unilever is treading swiftly on the digital path on the people front. the company receives 1.8 million job applications from across the world. it uses technology to make a shortlist  thus drastically reducing the number of man-hours that were earlier spent on the process of conducting interviews. nair  an engineering graduate  had taken up hr as a career stream by choice. she is now finding it fascinating how hr is changing with the combined power of digital and human. “we have to bring the field of human capital and financial capital a lot together. we use standard measures to ensure we get the best talent from the best places. we measure the mood and morale of people with data analytics. with predictive attrition  we are able to predict which employees we may lose. that has saved us 200 million euros  the cost of unavoidable attrition ” said nair  who was heading hr at hindustan unilever (hul) prior to moving into a global role.on gender diversity  too  unilever has managed to move the needle and has improved its balance to 46% women in the workforce from 36% five years ago. while the number is 37% at hul  nair said it’s way ahead of the country’s average number of women in the workforce (27%). this is a huge improvement from what it was way back in 1992 — at 2% women in management cadre — when she joined the company.nair attributes practices such as offering greater flexibility at work  day-care centres  maternity leave and programmes to fight unconscious biases behind unilever’s achievement to become gender-balanced. unilever is now offering a paternity leave of three weeks across the world. the next plan of action for nair is making unilever inclusive on disability. the company is pursuing this under a pilot programme called “differability”  with india being one of the piloting clusters.</div></div>