<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>progressive organisations are paying greater attention to personal issues of employees. it’s not just fertility leaves  companies are now offering fertility allowances to employees. while icici bank and godrej already gave such leaves  salesforce has decided to offer employees a fertility allowance. from june this year  employees at the customer relationship management company have been extended an allowance of rs 1.65 lakh for fertility treatments. these can include traditional infertility medical procedures  diagnostic testing  egg harvesting & freezing costs and in-vitro fertilisation (ivf) consultation. all employees — whether single  married or living together — would be covered in india apart from other markets in the world. salesforce vp (employee success-apac) edweena stratton said  “the reality is that infertility is a complex issue  and some of the biggest challenges associated with it have been the high cost and the stigma surrounding it. the good news is that more people are being vocal about their struggles  and we are becoming more aware of the problem. we will continue to provide benefits for our employees that support today’s modern family landscapes.”at godrej industries and associate companies (gilac)  leave for fertility treatments can be taken as part of the group’s sick leave policy. “we also cover ivf treatments as part of our medical reimbursement policy ” said gilac head (group hr and corporate services) sumit mitra.icici bank  on the other hand  provides 180 days of paid fertility leaves to its employees. the average cost of such treatments are in the range of rs 1-1.50 lakh  depending on the scale and duration of the treatment.matters relating to fertility  which are largely personal issues  are catching the attention of progressive organisations as these can enhance stress levels in employees  which can impact productivity. in addition to fertility leave  organisations have come up with new types of leaves like compassionate and surrogacy leaves to help employees cope better.specialist talent solutions company xpheno’s co-founder kamal karanth said  “we all know the women dropout ratio from work is high. the number of women who need or avail of these kinds of leaves is statistically insignificant. but it enhances the way employees  especially women  look at the organisations. these policies definitely increase employer branding  which also have a slender impact on retention of women workforce... it’s a huge feel-good factor for employees to know their employers care.”according to an ey report  infertility  the inability to conceive by natural means  is a medical condition with high prevalence affecting nearly 10-15% of married couples in india. more than 27 million couples who are actively seeking children suffer from infertility  it said. infertility attributable to male factors  too  is on the rise and constitutes 30-40% of all infertility cases.</div></div>