<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: as the world’s fastest-growing large economy  india is undoubtedly making progress. but are we doing enough to lift people out of poverty and enabling them to realise their potential  that’s what a panel comprising some of india’s top business minds will debate on tuesday. among the panelists are infosys chairman nandan nilekani  who fashioned india’s biometrics-based unique identity scheme that the government is using to channel subsidies directly to the poor. alongside him will be harish manwani  independent director at tata sons and former chairman of hindustan unilever  a company that knows the pulse of india’s rural economy. they’ll be joined by two of india’s top bankers — hdfc bank managing director aditya puri and kotak mahindra bank ceo uday kotak. two of india’s startup stars  paytm founder vijay shankar sharma and oyo rooms founder ritesh agarwal; legal eagle cyril shroff of cyril amarchand mangaldas; kalpana morparia  ceo  jp morgan south asia and india; and n venkatram  ceo of deloitte india  complete the elite panel. the panel is expected to focus on growth and inequality. much has been made of rising inequality in india by economist thomas piketty and his co-author lucas chancel  particularly since the early eighties  when growth began to accelerate. the top 1% of indians corner 22% of income  on par with their share in the 1930s  the duo have found. ishan anand and anjana thampi  two young scholars from jawaharlal nehru university  have found that asset inequality has worsened significantly over 1992-2012  accelerating since 2002. growing inequality is a reality across the world. the question is  what should be done about it  indisputably  growth has to be made broad-based and participatory. in order to do that  indians need more physical and social infrastructure and access to global opportunities. from rural roads to highspeed rail and bharat mala  the transport infrastructure is being built. the goods and services tax improves ease of doing business. yet much more needs to be done  and smarter ways of doing them have to be identified. the panel will apply its collective acumen to these problems  and beyond.</div></div>