<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>co-working  a western concept that involves various individuals or startups sharing a common workplace environment  is slowly catching on across prime indian property markets  with the segment reporting around three-fold growth over 2017.according to jll  in january-june 2018  co-working firms leased 19 lakh sq ft  compared with mere 6.4 lakh sq ft in the first half of 2017. in 2017  co-working took 5% of the leased space in the country. ramesh nair  ceo & country head  jll india  said  “co-working saw a great start in the country and is likely to play a strong role in shaping the future supply-demand dynamics by changing the way the serviced office industry works.”many startups and an increasing number of companies prefer co-working spaces to conventional office spaces due to lower rentals  savings on operational costs and a more flexible work environment. a company can save as much as 30% on the operational cost alone  according to some estimates. besides  the lock-in period for co-working spaces varies between one and three years while companies lease conventional office spaces for five years followed by another five years  or for three years  followed by two extensions for a similar period.“so far  we have leased 1.1m sq ft across cities and are further looking to add 1m sq ft by march 2019 ” said sidharth menda  ceo  cowrks. the growing opportunities have also led to mushrooming of co-working space providers. the growing opportunities have also led to mushrooming of co-working space providers. some of the large players in the segment includes wework  cowrks  international workplace group that operates regus and spaces and awfis.“flexible working space is the fastest-growing segment worldwide and we see many players and startups getting into this segment. it not only widens the segment but is also helping conventional corporates by providing them with such spaces. in such properties  companies get to save on other operational costs such as it infrastructure  fitments  housekeeping and broadband connectivity. for space and cost efficiency  companies are consolidating and moving into co-working hubs.according to real estate services firm cbre  the global average utilisation of assigned seats is 60%  excluding vacant seats  while the global average meeting room utilisation is just 30%. according to cbre  the next few years  with office rents continuing to move up across india  the total space leased by co-working operators in tier-1 and tier-2 cities could touch 6-10 m sq. ft. by 2020. in the long-term  however  consolidation among coworking operators will occur  as not all of them will be able to mitigate the risk in their business models or have deep pockets to survive for long in non-prime locations with cheaper rents. only a handful of big players are expected to eventually remain.</div></div>