<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: paresh sukthankar’s shock exit from hdfc bank on friday is likely to nudge the lender’s board into hastening the hunt for managing director aditya puri’s successor  as it prepares for a generational shift in operational leadership after almost a quarter of a century. puri  md of the bank since its 1994 inception  turns 70 in october 2020 and has to retire at that age  according to rbi norms.until friday  sukthankar (55) as deputy managing director was considered a natural successor to puri. but that has now changed.“this is not something that anybody anticipated. although hdfc bank has an experienced second line of command  it will be great if there is more clarity on what the bank is planning ” said lalitabh shrivastawa  analyst at sharekhan  a part of the bnp paribas group. puri has publicly said the board will start the search for his successor at least 18 months in advance and ensure that the new leader is on board by october 2019 to ensure a smooth transition. sukthankar’s presence meant that it was always possible the transition would not be needed. that  too  has now changed.“the sudden resignation of the dmd who could have been a likely candidate for the ceo position throws a spanner in the works ” said suresh ganapathy  research analyst  financials  at macquarie.however  ganapathy pointed out that hdfc bank has lost several top management personnel in the past five years  but that hasn’t affected the performance of the bank.“while at the margin  this development is negative  we are confident that hdfc bank can manage this challenge well. in our view  hdfc life ceo  amitabh chaudhury  could be considered for the position but any speculation at this point in time could be quite premature ” ganapathy said. sukthankar headed the crucial risk function of the bank known for its solid asset quality even as it clocked a consistent 30% growth for the better part of the last decade.“sukthankar was a pillar of the bank and an important reason for the bank’s success. while the process to find puri’s successor has not started yet  we may have to either outsource it to a head hunter or run the process ourselves ” said a senior executive at the bank. “hdfc bank will wake up to the reality on monday. the planning has to now start in right earnest because there are very few people around who have the experience to run such a large bank ” said a consultant who works closely with the lender. that hdfc bank starts early because it is in a sector that has seen disruption due to new technology.“banking is also rapidly changing because of the disruption caused by fintech and digital. at the same time  concerns on data and cyber security  compliance and regulatory challenges confront large financial institutions ” said k sudarshan  regional managing partner  asia  ema partners  a global executive search firm. “so much disruption and sweeping change around us means future bank ceos should have a different perspective and skills that were not relevant even a decade ago.” the soft-spoken sukthankar was also in charge of the key human resources vertical of the bank  which has recently made sweeping changes in the way it functions. it has also lost its hr head philip mathew a few days ago.</div></div>