<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: navroze godrej  son of jamshyd godrej and heir apparent at godrej & boyce  has relinquished his role as executive director of the 118-year-old firm paving the way for the elevation of cousin nyrika holkar to a leadership role. navroze will continue to be on the board as non-executive director "my son navroze godrej continues as a non-executive director on the board of godrej & boyce… he continues to offer his thoughts on business transformation led by design thinking and innovation " jamshyd godrej said. "he is also pursuing several other projects outside the company."insiders expected navroze to be the future managing director but his abrupt resignation means that nyrika holkar  niece of jamshyd godrej gets a chance to hone her leadership at the top level of the white goods and engineering firm.navroze’s sister raika is not involved in the business. nyrika has been made executive director and is handling legal  intellectual property management and mergers and acquisitions for the group.‘’she participates in all key decisions on operations  strategy  talent and risk management " godrej said.godrej & boyce  the holding company of the godrej group with 15 diverse business divisions  offers consumer  office and industrial products and services. navroze has been credited with many innovations at the group including the launch of a box-type battery-powered cooler and  later a box to store away daily use valuables.jamshyd godrej did not comment on the succession plan saying "i will continue to be the chairman & managing director of the company for the foreseeable future."godrej says the innovation continues to be a theme across the group both in products and processes. "all the business divisions of godrej & boyce are actively developing innovative new products and solutions on a continuous basis ’’ said godrej.the company recently launched new products in appliances and furniture categories and opened a retail store in bangalore. jamshyd is the cousin of godrej group chairman adi godrej and godrej agrovet chairman nadir godrej.navroze was working on an organisational transformation initiative to reinvent the company with focus on design  innovation and consumer. he is believed to have ushered in a culture that was more collaborative. he also inducted young talent and encouraging them to come up with ideas to be funded by the company.he broke the traditional hierarchies to encourage younger employees to be involved in strategy discussions and cross functional teams working on innovation.“it could be a mature decision taken by a progressive godrej family which is very clear about roles played by shareholders and members in business operating roles ’’ says prof kavil ramachandran  executive director of the thomas schmidheiny centre for family enterprise at indian school of business. "it could be his decision.after playing an active role in business  about the extent to which he can be involved. in any case  godrej & boyce is a well-run organisation by both family and non-family professionals. hence  there will not be any concerns of any negative fallout of this move ’’ he added.</div></div>