<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>among those who followed business news closely a decade ago  there might be a sense of déjà vu about software services industry veteran vineet nayyar being appointed the vice-chairman and managing director of the troubled infrastructure leasing & financial services ltd (il&fs;). in april 2009  nayyar had led the team from mahindra group’s it firm tech mahindra that took over the beleaguered it services company satyam computer services. satyam  too  had hit a crisis  like il&fs; has today  albeit of a different nature. while satyam had a promoter confessing he had cooked the company’s books  forcing the government to take over the board  at il&fs; the government already had control through the company’s institutional shareholders.back in early 2009  a deepak parekh–led board had run a process to find new promoters for satyam. tech mahindra pipped larsen & toubro to emerge as the winning bidder. in 2018  il&fs; faced a disaster of equal magnitude after it defaulted on its loan repayment commitments to sidbi.in a throwback to the government action of 2009  the il&fs; board was superseded last week on monday  october 1. the new board led by banker uday kotak thought it prudent to give veteran nayyar the driver’s seat straight away. it helped that nayyar had just retired from tech mahindra a month ago.interestingly  for nayyar  there is a link between 2009 and now. one of the 348 subsidiary companies of il&fs; is il&fs; engineering and construction company  formerly maytas infra. it was key to the satyam meltdown and was taken over by il&fs; in 2009 in a management change forced by the government.the crisis in satyam was triggered in late 2008 when the board of directors refused to sign off on a buyout of two firms — maytas infrastructure and maytas properties — both led at the time by satyam’s promoter b ramalinga raju’s sons. apparently  the merger would have been used to hide the huge gaps (missing assets  missing employees  missing transactions) in satyam’s books. after the board rebuff  raju owned up to the problems in satyam in january 2009  and was subsequently arrested.satyam till that day was one of the ambassadors of indian it  listed in the new york stock exchange and had 40 000 employees. the company needed to be saved. tech mahindra and il&fs; stepped up. il&fs; was already a large shareholder in maytas infra  a listed entity. along with it  the company got maytas properties  in which maytas infra had a large stake.over the next decade  satyam  which was later merged into tech mahindra  grew from strength to strength while the maytas twins stagnated. maytas infra  now renamed il&fs; engineering and construction  has not been able to break out of the regulatory noose that was put around it in the aftermath of the satyam scandal.it is in the field of engineering  procurement and construction (epc). the financial performance has been listless. however  since the new board took over at the unlisted parent il&fs;  the stock of il&fs; engineering and construction has moved up 57%. on friday  october 5  as the broader market fell  the scrip hit the upper filter of rs 25.32  10% higher than its previous closing  clearly signalling the market’s confidence in a change of fortunes under the new management. maytas properties  now renamed as county hill properties  has been loss making.a senior investment banker who had taken a close look at il&fs; engineering some years back  says it is hamstrung by its inability to access the stock markets due to its legacy issues that have not been sorted out. at the same time  since it was squeezed for funds  its ability to take on large projects reduced  in an industry where execution of large projects is necessary to land larger ones.“one of the key challenges at il&fs; engineering is accessing the capital markets. overall stress building on the il&fs; group over the last few years also meant it could not be considered as a potent source for a strong order book ” says sandeep upadhyay  md (infrastructure) of centrum capital ltd. the strategic partner inducted by il&fs;  too  could not help much. it is the saudi binladin group  a construction-focused group started by the family of osama bin laden.while the market itself has provided a tailwind for il&fs; engineering  there is more that can give heart to the company. a key issue with the regulator seems to have been resolved with the securities appellate tribunal having set aside a sebi order asking the company to pay up rs 59 crore related to insider trading allegations. will the sat order  which came in july  coupled with the midas touch of nayyar  be enough to turn around il&fs; engineering  the company’s shareholders will sure hope so.battling unknownsa decade later  the merger of satyam and tech mahindra looks like a clear win-win for the acquirer as well as satyam shareholders and employeesthere were too many unknowns when the tech mahindra team walked into satyam office in hyderabad on the morning of april 13  2009  to take over the company.there were many potential landmines that could go off if the new management didn’t walk nimbly. a legal venture fund had launched a $1 billion suit claiming intellectual property violations in an obscure town named amarillo  in texas usa. the new york stock exchange  where satyam was then listed  demanded the company’s financial records for the previous nine years.cp gurnani  who took over as the new chief executive officer of satyam at that point  says a decision was taken to get the company above board  with all its accounts in order and extinguish all liabilities  regulatory and otherwise.for that  tough decisions were taken  like de-listing the company from the nyse or settling the suit in texas.although gurnani had the support of mahindra group honchos like bharat doshi (group cfo) or vineet nayyar (executive vice-chairman of tech mahindra)  working alongside him  full time  trying to understand how much damage had been caused by fictitious reporting and revenue inflation by the erstwhile management  he still describes the challenge presented to the team as “scary”.unexpected challenges crept up from all corners. for instance  there was a commitment made by the erstwhile management  led by ramalinga raju  to provide 10 000 jobs in a chinese city. getting out of this and re-negotiating the contract meant mastering the chinese drinking tradition of gan bei (shots of wine consumed in quick succession as an honour and as personal toasts).there were a bunch of other decisions that the team had to take  very early. one was to gain back customer confidence. many customers had turned away after the scam was exposed. the other important part was to hold on to key employees.gurnani explains that for the employees  it was a big let down. a satyam job  from being a position of prestige and status  had suddenly become one no employee wanted to talk about. “employees would not mention satyam while checking into hotels.we heard stories about how weddings were about to get cancelled  car loans were being recalled or how people found it difficult to rent houses ” gurnani adds.plus the strain of turning the company around  working almost through the day was taking its toll. gurnani recalls how one day chief financial officer s durgashankar approached him and said his entire team was falling ill  because they have been working till 2am on most days. “ultimately we survived by breaking down the problems into small parts and having separate teams tackling each problem ” gurnani says.satyam was finally merged with tech mahindra in 2013  and gurnani says the delay was to ensure satyam shareholders also got a good deal. the merger has helped tech mahindra in a big way.the telecom business  most of which tech mahindra brought to the table  still accounts for more than 40% of the revenues of the combined company. however  the enterprise business that satyam had saw faster growth in the years after the merger  pushing tech mahindra up the league tables to make it the fifth largest it services company based out of india.equity analysts of edelweiss  sandip agarwal  pranav kshatriya and nikunj mandowara  in a report on september 24  2018  had given their thumbs up to the merger of the two companies  and had said scale would help it get bigger orders. they wrote in the report: “the merger of msat with techm has created a formidable player making it the fifth-largest player in the indian it services sector (ex-cognizant). this will enable techm to compete with biggies of the industry and vie for larger deals  which could lead to improved traction for the merged entity. generally  clients are more comfortable with larger organisations having a good track record.”the tech mahindra takeover of satyam computer services is approaching a decade. trouble at satyam had started in the latter part of 2008  leading to a change in management next year. md and ceo of tech mahindra  cp gurnani  spoke about the journey and the current challenges facing the it services industry in india in an interview with et magazine. edited excerptswhat are the key decisions that helped turn satyam around breaking up the problem into small parts  like compliance  regulation  infrastructure  right-sizing and strategy  was a key decision  and then allocating teams to handle each of these. we took over on april 13. between then and june 9  when i made the first presentation  i did not make any commitments to anyone. the first year was about making sure the ship doesn’t sink. in the second and third years we entered  first  the growth and then the investment phases. also we did not chase large deals  instead focusing on getting small ones and executing them.how are global events shaping your strategy  say  for instance  brexit or the moves by us president donald trump let brexit happen  and let us see what shape it takes. about the worries around the us  it is true the visa worries create a degree of instability. but what i always say is when it is 3am in new york  usa  it is 12.30 pm in india. so when they are losing their sleep  we might get away just with losing some hair.is the lower rupee a big advantage for it services companies ultimately everyone has hedged the dollar  so i feel in this change of exchange rates  only the banks end up making money. also  a lot of currencies across the world are also distressed. we do a lot of business in euro or pound  so it balances out.</div></div>