<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>video star: when sanjiv bajaj went up on stage to receive the business leader of the year award  it was a proud moment for the bajaj family seated in the front row. while wife shefali recorded his acceptance speech on her phone  father rahul bajaj beamed throughout. when the winner thanked his wife  rahul bajaj patted his daughter-in-law on the shoulder. one of the first things that he asked after getting down from the stage was if they had managed to get a good video of his speech! apart from a family group photo  there was also an after party thrown by the bajajs.hair raising: even billionaire industrialists need a helping hand when it comes to hair. despite the many cameras flashing on all sides  in a touching sight  daughter tanya dubash found a quiet moment to fix her dad’s hair. adi godrej’s few out-of-place locks were put back in order before the 76-year-old chairman emeritus of godrej consumer products and godrej properties accepted the lifetime achievement award.in another hairy tale  we caught the winner of corporate citizen of the year award  hul’s chairman sanjiv mehta  at the end of the night  espousing the virtues of one of the multinational’s acquisitions – indulekha. the brand is pitched as an ayurvedic solution to fight hair fall. his hair tip to a handful of people gathered around him: start with the hair oil and then move on to the shampoo.birthday greetings: former icici bank boss chanda kochhar made a rare public appearance at the event. it also happened to be her birthday and many of her peers were seen wishing her warmly.making a mark: sumant sinha was overheard reminiscing that when he started his company renew power  someone had remarked: “how can a kayastha man do business ” people from the community have excelled in many fields but are not particularly known to get into business. his reply came a few years later on saturday night when he took home the entrepreneur of the year award.learning curve: many cxos were tweeting from the et awards. while some were impressive with their tech savvy  a few were overhead asking about the difference between a hashtag and a handle.no filter… coffee: reni narayen  who accompanied her award-winning spouse shantanu narayen to the et awards  had to bear with some disappointment on what was a big night out for the family – there was no filter coffee! that’s a point to note for next year.huddle time: for idfc bank executives  the show provided an occasion for a quick confab. incoming boss v vaidyanathan and outgoing chief rajiv b lall were seen in discussions with three top executives—ajay mahajan  paritosh mathur and piyush wadhwa. vaidyanathan’s capital first will complete its acquisition of idfc bank by this year-end.time for a chat: what could be the topic when an ace investment banker  a sebi board member and the boss of india’s largest spirits maker gather for a quick chat  just minutes before the show started  hemendra kothari  madhabi puri buch & anand kripalu were in deep conversation with kothari offering some suggestions to buch  to which she was seen nodding. something for the regulator’s agenda the kjo effecttalk time: the spouse of an award winner was very keen to be photographed with event host karan johar. she was quick to ask a few people who walked up to them to congratulate her husband if they knew johar personally and could get them introduced. a business leader asked johar if he was getting an award too. he replied goodnaturedly  “mujhe kyu denge  mujhe toh economics aur business ke bare mein kucch nahi aata. (why would i get an award  i don’t know anything about economics and business.) i am here to do what i do best—talk!ktr’s big moment: he has an election to win  but on saturday night  telangana’s it minister kt rama rao was delighted to chalk up a score of a different sort--a photo with his favourite bollywood director karan johar. and what’s more  he snagged one for the album  by getting kjo to pose alongside him and a fellow hyderabadi--shantanu narayen  boss of adobe.but who is he his movies may be all the rage among the indian diaspora  but he isn’t easily recognisable to everybody despite hosting a long-running tv show and appearing on the big screen as well. one award winner’s spouse asked a reporter to point out the famed bollywood producer-director to her. now she knows.</div></div>