<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by sonu bhasinthe sudden death of anant bajaj  the only son and inheritor of shekhar bajaj of bajaj electricals  has left everyone dumbstruck. amid heartfelt sympathies for the parents  kiran and shekhar bajaj  there is an unspoken question on everyone’s mind: what will happen to the business  what will shekhar bajaj do to keep the business going bajaj is not the first patriarch to be in a situation that no one really should be in. the deep personal loss of a child is a void that can never be filled. however  cruel as the world is  the void in the business does need to get filled in.happy are the patriarchs whose inheritors agreed to become part of the family business. but  patriarchs know they can no longer take for granted that genext will join them in the business. once genext does indeed come back to be part of the business  the fortunate patriarchs are congratulated by their peers. the next generation could be either their sons or daughters or nieces and nephews.however  carefully worked out succession planning can go awry when death steals away the young ones. anand mahindra lost his nephew  kaveesh  to a freak accident a few years ago and more recently  shibaji roy  inheritor of the oldest sanitary and drainage solutions company of kolkata  died in a road accident. death clearly does not differentiate between size  type or vintage of businesses before making its inexplicable choices.death is not the only reason family businesses are left bereft of the inheritors. vijay mallya and sant singh chatwal are examples of patriarchs who inducted their inheritors into their businesses. the inheritors worked for a while and then left for more glamorous and oomphy lives  leaving the patriarchs no choice but to take charge again.david and megan  children of david ellison  cofounder of oracle  hold shares of their father’s company but are competing with each other in hollywood! at the other end of the spectrum are inheritors like rishabh mariwala and kavin mittal who are working very hard in their businesses. however  these are not part of the core family business. rishabh  after working at kaya  a marico group company  left and set up soap opera n more  a premium artisan soap business.kavin mittal  instead of bharti airtel  chose to start up smaller businesses — appspark and movies now — before settling down at hike  an instant message service.and then there are patriarchs who lose inheritors to their in-laws! dhiraj ‘timmy’ sarna and shikhar malhotra have chosen to focus on businesses of their fathers- in-law  leaving their own family businesses. sarna is head of dlf brands and malhotra is focusing on the shiv nadar group of companies.greggory penner   the current chairman of walmart  is the grandson-in-law of the founder – sam walton.transition from one generation to the next is the most delicate period in the life of any family business. it is for this reason that patriarchs are obsessive about it. however  most patriarchs look at succession as an event; in reality it is a process. smart patriarchs initiate the process many years before they actually hand over the corner-office.others leave the inheritors free to pursue their own interests and then are surprised when the twenty- somethings inform them that they will give the family business a pass as it does not allow them to use creative talents.succession planning has changed much since the days of dara shikoh. till the turn of the 20th century  patriarchs had to fight off inheritors who  in turn  fought within themselves to take over the reins.somewhere along the line the indian economy opened  the world became a smaller place and creative pursuits started being celebrated. this led to a change in the attitude of the inheritors. unfortunately the patriarchs themselves remained rooted in the attitudes of the last century.while they are keen that their descendants continue the legacy  patriarchs don’t make it easy for inheritors to do so. control and ‘i-built-the-business-and-so-i-know-it-all’ attitude is enough to scare away the young  who have had a their world view shaped by their global education. refusal to make way for the next generation also takes its toll.thomas watson  founder of ibm  refused to step down till he was 82; serge dassault  of dassault aircraft  had to wait till he was 61 before his own father allowed him to become the chairman. these delays can be disastrous. if the older generation do not go  the genext do not stay. they use some of their share of the family wealth and set up other businesses of their own.genext is full of new ideas  tech- savvy and have a desire to make a difference in the business. bubbling with enthusiasm as they come into the family business  some run straight into the culture wall of ‘i-know-what-is-best-for-you’ and ‘youare-just-a-kid’ and worse ‘keep quiet till i tell you to speak’. these are real life statements i have heard in meetings of family businesses. if i have squirmed on behalf of the inheritor  i can only imagine what goes on in their minds at the moment.patriarchs need to realise that life has changed since the 1960s when joining the father’s business was possibly the best option for any youngster. today  the environment is different. top recruiters at the best business schools are asked not about the starting salary but about the operational freedom their organisation has  culture at the work place and flexibility of working hours. the inheritors  too  look for the same within their own family business and  like non- family employees  may leave if they don’t find it.patriarchs need to address the needs and desires of the genext. moving beyond anecdotal data they now have access to studies and reports by the top consultancy firms. one particular report by pwc showcases four points that would help the patriarchs attract and retain their inheritors.the report says that the inheritors would like to bring in external talent to professionalise the business  they would like to diversify into new products and into newer geographies. most importantly  the report says  that the inheritors would want the family business to set up a new entrepreneurial venture to run concurrently with the older business.addressing some simple issues and their own mindsets  the patriarchs can convert the case of the missing inheritors into the case of the willing inheritors.(apart from running an advisory firm  sonu bhasin is author of the inheritors – stories of entrepreneurship and success)</div></div>