<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: tata group  the country’s largest conglomerate  said it has ‘taken note’ of allegations of sexual harassment against suhel seth  who is a consultant with the group.“tata group is committed to promoting a safe workplace for women. we have noted the recent reports regarding mr seth in the media. we are looking into the issue and will decide on a further course of action in this regard ” a tata group spokesperson said in response to an etquery.seth worked with the public relations team of the tata group when the ratan tata-cyrus mistry boardroom battle broke out two years back.over the last one week  five women have alleged seth  a wellknown marketing consultant  and frequent guest on tv news channels  has sexually assaulted them in the past. these include filmmaker natashja rathore  journalist mandakini gahlot  writer ishita yadav  and model diandra soares. these women have shared details of alleged sexual assault by seth either on their twitter handles or facebook accounts.seth is chief executive of consultancy firm counselage. the allegations against him emerged in the wake of the #metoo movement  which has led to women across various sectors including bollywood  advertising  journalism and corporates  calling out incidents of sexual harassment.prominent names who have faced allegations as part of the #me-too movement include bollywood actors nana patekar and alok nath  director sajid khan and former editor and junior external affairs minister mj akbar.several other companies for whom seth is known to have consulted on various issues  said he is not associated with them now.seth has been associated with beverage maker coca-cola as a consultant  and has consulted the india arm of the atlanta-based company on various matters  including the pesticide controversy in 2006. a coca-cola spokesperson said the company has a zero tolerance sexual harassment policy  without commenting on whether it will continue its relationship with seth. "coca-cola has a zero-tolerance policy towards sexual harassment and to answer your query specifically  mr seth is neither an employee nor a member of the india advisory board of the company."a mahindra group spokesperson said:“as on date  suhel seth is not an adviser to the mahindra group.” a spokesperson for adani group said seth is no longer with the group and that his oneyear contract with them ended in september 2018.“there is no such association with him since many years now ” a spokesperson for jsw group led by sajjan jindal said. the website of counselage  meanwhile  was not functional on thursday evening  with the message ‘our website is currently undergoing scheduled upgrades.’emails sent to spokespersons of reliance industries and gmr group remained unanswered.queries to suhel seth on email and whatsapp remained unanswered. he has 4.8 million followers on twitter  and describes himself as marketing maven  author and actor.</div></div>