<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kavita thakur is about to hit a century. no  the 32-year-old mother of two is not a cricketer. she’s just about to add her 100th contact to the whatsapp group that she uses to sell bed sheets  salwar kameez suits  sarees  shoes  menswear and jewellery made by various manufacturers. until three months ago  this group didn’t exist. the most frequently used apps on her mobile were facebook and candy crush. but as of today  she has already earned rs 45 000 in commission alone by selling these products  without having to step out of her house. all she had to do was set up a social network group covering as many people as possible and liaison with an online reselling platform. given that she spends a lot of time on her mobile  her mother-in-law still thinks she’s bursting candy crush balloons on her phone. howrah-based thakur decided to become an online reseller after she saw a friend’s facebook post that had pictures of a saree collection and a message urging users in her network to buy the products from her. not only was her friend earning a small margin on each sale  she was also getting a commission from the platform and a bonus for crossing a sales target. thakur decided to do some research. she found out social commerce firms get big and small manufacturers from india to display catalogues of their fashion and household accessories on their sites or apps for a commission. her friend had downloaded an app of one such company and enrolled herself as a reseller on the platform. she was reselling items from the catalogues to a select set of friends via facebook and whatsapp. what her friend is doing is called online reselling — a phenomenon that has picked up with the advent of social commerce companies like meesho  glowroad  wooplr  and shop101 in india. thakur  who soon signed up to become an online reseller  is among the thousands of women who have found a way to earn between rs 25 000 and rs 50 000 every month while working from their homes. leading social commerce platforms have close to 40 000 active resellers and over two-thirds of these are women. according to the leading players in the category  about 70% of the women resellers live outside the metros  where job opportunities are fewer. a lot of these women had to give up their jobs after marriage or after having children. thakur  who is a sociology graduate from bihar  had to quit hers because her father-in-law disapproved of women in their family going out to work. according to the 2016 national family health survey  only 31% of women in the age group of 15-49 are working in india. like thakur  many of the women resellers that et magazine spoke to belonged to the 69% non-working group until they learned about online reselling. eight out of 10 women resellers from small towns had quit their jobs after embracing motherhood. the online reselling opportunity is a boon for such people. not only has reselling allowed them to work from home at a time of their convenience  it has turned them into owners of small business. cheaper access to the internet and deeper penetration of affordable smartphones have also helped. reselling is filling the space left empty by ecommerce biggies such as amazon and flipkart. “social commerce is the future of ecommerce in india ” says mohit bhatnagar  md at sequoia capital  which recently invested in meesho. several people  particularly in small towns  might be uncomfortable buying online. an online reseller becomes a face these people can rely on to ensure she can at least order a product they have set their eyes on. if a customer wants a product  the reseller places the order. the buyer gets the product directly from the company and pays for it. resellers can add a margin  apart from earning a commission and a bonus. bhatnagar adds that for women who’ve long idolised their friends who migrated to urban areas  platforms like meesho have turned them into the role models they’ve always looked up to. “to the buyers in my group  i am the amazon and the flipkart  only better ” says shurvi khamesra  a 28-year-old reseller on meesho  who lives in nardana  about 195 km from nashik  in dhule district of maharashtra. “i know them to a certain degree and can give them suggestions on what to buy. this saves them the time and effort of browsing for products.” khamesra  who has a 65-member whatsapp group of buyers  often has to struggle to get ecommerce platforms to deliver to her own town. yet  she resells goods worth rs 50 000 every week to customers living in rajasthan  gujarat  and madhya pradesh and earns around rs 30 000 a month. she even mentors other women resellers on when and how to share a catalogue with customers. some of these women can’t even pronounce the complicated names of the startups they’re onboard. often  wooplr is changed into the more familiar “whirlpool”  meesho turns into “maysho”  and shop101 reduces to “shop one”. “they are also dealing with customers who don’t know how to type sneakers and therefore need a face to shop ” says arjun zacharia  cofounder of wooplr  an erstwhile fashion discovery platform that pivoted to social commerce. in a country where the style and fabric of sarees changes after every 200 km  he adds  these women resellers are a reflection of their target customer group. resellers also play a significant role in helping small startups. jamshedpur-based suranjana shaw  30  has helped a woman set up a small garments shop in the northeast by reselling clothes in bulk to her at lower margins. “my father-in-law disapproves of working women so no one in my extended family knows i’m working. my motherin-law thinks i play candy crush as i am on the phone a lot. but i’ve made rs 45 000 through reselling in three months ” says kavita thakur  resident of howrah  west bengal.“meesho gives a 12.5% commission on a sale of rs 50 000. so it doesn’t hurt to resell in bulk at no margin at all  too ” she says. the web designer from kolkata moved to jamshedpur after marriage. finding a job in her field was a challenge at the hotbed of iron and steel companies. “initially  my newborn son kept me busy. when he grew up and i had free time and nothing to do with it  i went into depression.” then she came across a meesho ad on facebook with the keywords “work from home”. she grabbed the opportunity. within a month of downloading the app  she made rs 12 000. a year later  shaw has four whatsapp groups of various types of customers and their preferences. one of these groups has 150 members  another has only 50. “i worked in it but after marriage and a kid  i had to quit my job. i went into depression. then i started reselling and a year later  i make `50 000 a month. it’s better than my it job”from commission  margin and bonus  she’s able to make rs 50 000 every month. for a lot of women resellers  the buyer network begins with their extended family and friends. then they have to take up the challenge to expand their network. but opportunities are abundant. shreeti sharma  for example  caters to her circle in the northeast from her residence in kanpur. “shillong and manipur are two of the most fashionable states but the rest of the country doesn’t get access to their fashion because of logistics.” sharma  45  has enabled weavers from that region to get on board glowroad as suppliers. she resells manipuri and assamese handloom products through the app. the pay is not great but the work is satisfying  says the former medical administrator. she has also mentored 25 girls to become resellers. reselling came as a boon to pooja mallya. the 35-year-old is an amateur singer  a housewife and a mother. a few years ago  she had to relocate from the suburbs of mumbai to the foothills of rishikesh due to personal reasons. mallya had ambitions of starting something of her own but had no money. she turned to wooplr to start a business with zero investment.  “all my friends and family know that i’m running a business now. i can’t tell you how happy i feel every time money is credited into my account.” for some women  reselling is the only means to an end. a glowroad reseller from thiruvananthapuram sells sarees  dress material  household items and jewellery under the name nimah fashions. the mother of two cannot publicise her nature of work.“i googled a lot of ‘work from home’ options and found this to be the best ” says the 38-year-old who doesn’t wish to be named. the kerala floods have hit her and she has not been able to dispatch her orders  she adds. glowroad’s founder sonal verma is a proud feminist who learnt through experience that women like her can afford to take financial independence for granted  a luxury that most women outside metros don’t have. the social commerce and reselling market is trying to make that luxury more accessible to these women. it’s early days  though. there’s enough investor interest. about $40 million have been raised by leading players in india. a report by technavio says the global social commerce market will grow at a cagr of 33.91% in 2017-21. but most players back home are grappling with logistics  exchange and return policies  payments and a barrage of me-too companies. the few things that will give one player an edge over others  says prashanth prakash  partner at accel india (an investor in glowroad)  are “smarter supplier curation  vernacular apps  and the right guardrails in the system to incentivise all parties (suppliers  resellers  delivery guys) to play by the rules as you scale.” meesho and wooplr are already working on developing vernacular apps. it remains to be seen whether these players will be able to maintain their momentum as they scale up. but they can boast of transforming the lives of several small-town homemakers by turning them into entrepreneurs.</div></div>