<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: as the #metoo movement gathers force in india  almost a year after it took flight in the us with the harvey weinstein expose  companies are struggling to engage with the need to make their workplaces safe by calling out and punishing sexual harassment.at a large beverage maker  an executive was downgraded after his annual performance review. just before his appraisal  the management came to know that he would make comments about the way women dressed in the office. on the other hand  a man at a telecom services company was judged to have been wrongfully accused of harassment by a woman who felt he had been unfair to a third colleague  a male.the #metoo india movement was sparked by actor tanushree dutta reviving her sexual harassment accusation against veteran nana patekar last month. that led to an outpouring from women recounting their experiences.'sustained & patient efforts needed'these ranged from behaviour that demeans them to rape by men in film  journalism  advertising and comedy among other fields. companies said they are tightening policies so that the line between acceptable behaviour and sexual harassment is clear. one way is by making sure that cases are dealt with quickly.“sexual harassment cases are a top-layer priority at pepsico ” said ahmed el sheikh  chairman  pepsico india. “in the context of current times  speed in dealing with such cases is the key and we are recognising that. we have zero tolerance on the matter of sexual harassment.” the company  where close to 40% of the workforce is female  has rolled out an antiharassment training module globally to educate employees on what is inappropriate behaviour. it has a toll-free  24/7 hotline managed by an independent third party.“what is perceived as attention  over-attention and normal will always be a grey area ” said aditya birla group human resources director santrupt misra. “that’s because people come from different cultural and educational backgrounds in a workplace. these are challenges companies have to deal with today if they have to create fair and inclusive workplaces. it requires sustained and patient efforts.”zero tolerancethere is zero tolerance for sexual harassment  he said  adding that this also applies in the case of wrongful accusations. still  it’s not clear if everyone has recognised that the goalposts have shifted — behavior that may have been ignored earlier is now considered well beyond the pale. also  social media has empowered accusers to an extraordinary extent.“what is defined as sexual harassment is making a lot of people uncomfortable in today’s context ” said a top official at a large executive search firm  which works closely with several blue-chip firms across the country. “they have to be dealt with on a case-to-case basis. that people have the power of going public on social media and be heard instantly is always a key consideration today while arriving at conclusions on sexual harassment cases.” tobacco  hotels and consumer goods giant itc said it has set up internal complaints committees at all its units to enquire into cases and recommend appropriate action  wherever required.“processes and mechanisms have been instituted to ensure that critical issues such as sexual harassment at the workplace  if any  are effectively addressed ” a spokesperson said. “itc encourages employees to report concerns and is responsive to employee complaints about harassment or other unwelcome and offensive conduct.”sharing best practicessocial media giant facebook  which has a 35% female workforce globally  has made its sexual harassment policies public on its website  including details on reporting procedures  how cases are investigated and anti-harassment training. “harassment  discrimination  and retaliation in the workplace are unacceptable but have been tolerated for far too long ” facebook chief operating officer sheryl sandberg said in a blog. “these are complicated issues  and while we don't believe any company's enforcement or policies are perfect  we think that sharing best practices can help us all improve  especially smaller companies that may not have the resources to develop their own policies.”among those named in the #metoo movement are actors alok nath and rajat gupta  besides author chetan bhagat and several journalists  one of them from the times of india who has been placed on administrative leave pending an inquiry. ad agencies such as creativeland asia  ddb mudra  dentsu webchutney  medulla communications  iprospect and publicis have issued statements in response to accusations on social media.“we have seen some of the rumours spread by certain individuals in anonymity linking the agency with events ” creativeland asia said. “cla has a great gender diverse working culture  we are one of the most secure and coveted creative agencies to work for. cla has a robust system completely independent of the management to redress  assist and support  complainants having the employees interest at its heart.” ddb mudra said it was investigating allegations.“the accusation stands in stark contrast to our values and standards at 22feet tribal worldwide and at the ddb mudra group more broadly  where it is our primary responsibility and commitment to provide our associates with a safe  fair and dignified workplace ” the agency said. others such as dentsu webchutney  fcb  iprospect india and medulla communications said they have robust policies in place and are investigating all complaints on social media.</div></div>