<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>there is a generational transformation underway at many of india’s marquee industrial houses. founded in the late 1960s and 1970s  they grew with india  and are now readying the ground for the next generation of the family to take the reins.at the $13 billion core sector conglomerate jsw group  led by sajjan jindal  this script is now playing out. in the hot seat is 28-year-old parth jindal  an alumnus of brown university and harvard business school.sajjan jindal is the son of jindal group patriarch op jindal.the burden of expectations is inevitable. his father sajjan jindal took the reins of a small steel plant on the outskirts of mumbai in 1984  with revenues of rs 9 crore  and grew it in three decades into an operation that overtook the century-old indian steel business of tata steel  in volumes.but steel is not where the younger jindal is expected to play. he is expected to build his own turf  in areas with little presence of the group — cement  paint and sports.when we arrive at the group headquarters in mumbai  parth jindal has just returned by chopper from the company’s steel plant in dolvi in raigad district. he meets us looking fresh from a quick shower in office  wearing an air of nonchalance.sports trackjindal says he is determined to build india’s first publicly traded sports company. he wants a listing on the bourses by 2025. jsw sports includes team franchises in cricket  football and kabaddi. the expectation is that in another seven years  the perception about the worth of a sports franchise among investors will change for the better.for instance  the dallas cowboys  an nfl franchise in the united states  is valued at over $4 billion. european soccer franchises such as manchester united  real madrid and barcelona  are also multi-billion dollar businesses. “my dream is to create india’s first ipo for a sports company. india currently is behind the curve. but sports as a business is fast gaining traction ” he says.in march  jsw sports acquired a 50% equity stake in the delhi daredevils franchise of the indian premier league. jindal is bullish about its prospects. firstly  it is very hard to break into the ipl owners’ league because new teams are unlikely and existing owners are wealthy individuals who have no reason to sell.so when the opportunity to buy a stake in the delhi franchise came along  it wasn’t a difficult decision to make.with the new television broadcast deal and the earnings that accrued to each ipl team  jindal says all the eight ipl teams are now profitable. his delhi daredevils finished eighth in the ipl this year out of eight teams  but will still be profitable  he claimed. each team is poised to make an excess of rs 150 crore in profits  he says.other sports such as kabaddi and football need more time to grow. the company owns the pro kabbadi league franchise haryana steelers and the ileague football club bengaluru fc.the break-even point in kabbadi  jindal says  would come in the next three years. football is a longer-term play and could take anywhere from five to seven years to break even  he says.“the money in sports is only going to grow. you can see where the new deals are happening. cable tv is only going to survive for two things — live news and live sports. everything else is moving to platforms like netflix  jio tv and amazon prime. there’s going to be nobody watching cable tv for any other reason ” he reasons. while sports is a glamorous business to be in  he’s also been tasked with building two dust-and-grime businesses from scratch — cement and decorative paints. the target date for a roll-out of its paints business is set for the year-end.jsw group has built a fortune serving or selling to other businesses in steel  energy and ports. cement and paints  however  are consumer-facing businesses  with an altogether different set of challenges.from a standing start in 2009  jsw cement has ramped up to become a 12.5 million tonne business. and in two years  it will see a further expansion to 20 mt. the company makes three varieties of cement from slag  a byproduct of the steel-making process.jindal says in two years the cement business will achieve sufficient scale (20 mt) for an ipo. he wants it to have a capacity of 50 million tonnes eventually. a lot of the growth would have to come from acquisitions. the group has been eyeing assets to buy.“we looked at several acquisition opportunities. at one point we were considering lafarge cement very seriously ” jindal said.on your own dimebeing part of a $13 billion conglomerate must make financing a new business easy  right  wrong.while the group under sajjan jindal has decided on diversification into allied sectors  the group’s stated policy is that diversification into newer businesses will pay for itself to further grow the business. thus the steel business  which brings in some 90% of the group’s revenues  will not divert funds from its revenue streams to fund other businesses.“we don’t discuss allocation of capital at the group level  we allow each business to organically or inorganically grow on their own strength ” jindal says.but when lafarge was on the selling block  the proposition to scale up the cement business fast was a rare opportunity and the group was prepared to make an exception. but it proved unnecessary  as the deal didn’t happen.one cement sector analyst  who spoke on the condition of anonymity  said recent steps have indicated the group is serious about the cement business. “two things that the company has done — buying shiva cement for its limestone and setting up a clinker facility in fujairah in uae — bode well for the company’s ipo plans. had it not been for these two steps  i would have written them off ” he added.war paintjsw’s diversification into paint has raised eyebrows. india’s paints market is dominated by four large  entrenched players. “for a company like jsw paints to penetrate the paints market  it will have to overcome the entry barrier put up at the distribution level ” says an analyst tracking the paints industry. he said that at the distribution level  shop shelves don’t have room for a new brand to come in. “in the past  companies like the japanese brand nippon paints and american brand sherwin-williams tried to enter the market but without any success ” says the analyst.jindal is unfazed.“there is so much opportunity in this country that it amazes me. i had the same thoughts that you harbour — how will i take on an asian paints or berger for instance ” jindal says.he mentions his father’s predicament when he started out building an integrated steel plant. “i’m sure my father thought too when he started on his entrepreneurial journey whether he can take on tata steel… when a market is growing so fast  there’s always space for a new entrant to come in. that’s my fundamental belief.”his reasoning is simple. the paint industry is growing at an attractive pace. as incumbents get bigger and bigger  there are opportunities for a new player to enter  he reasons. because he believes  the bigger players may find it difficult to react to market challenges because they’re too big now.there’s also a trump card. unlike  asian paints or a berger paints  he says jsw group can offer its dealer a steel franchise  and another branch of the same dealer a cement franchise or a paints dealership.mahesh singhi  founder and managing director at singhi advisors  a transaction advisory firm  sees merit in the jsw gameplan to be a “complete building solutions provider”.“the market for paints is expanding. there is room for new players to grow ” singhi said. the idea is that a customer buying steel rods to build a house is also a potential buyer for cement and paints.jindal’s unique selling proposition is going to be water-based paints  which are environmentally friendlier than solvent-based paint products.“also the (dealer) channel of established paint companies fear  the guy hundred metres away is also competing against him by offering the same paint product. jsw paints can offer an alternative ” he reasons.family bondthose who are watching the grooming of the jindal scion say parth jindal’s confidence to take on big players such as asian paints or birla group’s ultratech cement stems partly from the close guidance he is receiving from his father and the jsw top brass.with the schedules that come with globe-spanning businesses  how does the family find time to spend together whenever they are at home  they work out together and meet for breakfast after. as a kid  he used to see his father work out. he recalls when he was homesick at school in the uk  his father’s advice was to go outdoors and take part in sports. you’ll make friends  his father said. it worked.“as a family  we are quite passionate about sports and working out. it’s a good way of being mentally agile and staying sharp ” he says.these days  he beats his father in a game of squash.</div></div>