<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: freedom and responsibility go together  like peanut butter and jelly. you can’t have one without the other  said jessica neal  chief talent officer of netflix  making a point on the streaming service company’s much talked about people policies  which include unlimited holidays. neal was in mumbai recently to oversee the new india office operations and recruitments. netflix is beefing up its employee strength in the country — not only is the company doubling its strength here  it is doing so with an intent to mirror its global workplace culture of freedom and responsibility. the move is important  given that india is seeing the fastest content investment for any country in netflix’s first three years globally.in an exclusive interview to toi  neal said  “our plan globally  and here in mumbai  is to hire the best talent possible. india is one of the biggest entertainment hubs and we have been impressed by everyone we have been meeting. india is a new market for us and interacting with the talent here helps us understand how to resonate and how to build service for people better here and around the world.”at present  netflix india employs 30 people and this is expected to double in the next six months. the firm is hiring people from content licensing to production talent to marketing  legal and finance talent. these will largely be lateral hires  which is the case across the globe as well. netflix’s headquarters at los gatos and los angeles  which have more than 4 200 employees  contributes significantly to its global strength of over 4 900 streaming employees.“when we think about building a team  we think about individuals that are going to bring not only experience but also perspectives  which allow us to push the business forward. we are constantly looking for people who can help us think differently  who can bring experience to the table that we don’t have ” said neal  who returned to netflix in 2017 to oversee hr.netflix  which fired a senior executive abroad three months ago for repeated racial remarks  is also working hard at building an unbiased culture at work. the incident sent a strong message that the firm  which puts ample amount of trust in its employees  also demonstrates zero tolerance to such type of behaviour. while globally  women form 44% of netflix’s employees  in india  netflix has already attained gender equality with gender diversity at 53% of women.</div></div>