<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: rpg enterprises has embarked upon what the conglomerate calls a journey to bring about a culture change  which it hopes will help retain top talent and attract high potentials.the drive is being led by group chairman harsh goenka  who spends a lot of his time and interest in human resource activities and “culture building” that he says is an important pivot for the group.“for greater productivity  you need a good environment and the quality of the workplace is crucial to retain and attract top talent ” goenka told et in an interaction at the newly designed office of raychem rpg  located on the ground floor of rpg house in mumbai.the old-style maker of transformers and energy products has transformed into an open office  designed aesthetically with artwork and quaint wooden furniture.the initiatives include creative workspaces  flexi work options  five-day week for white collar staff in factory locations and encouragement to open communication. it has empowered a team called the young executive board to come up with innovative business ideas. “we have broken our office from a cabin system to an open system making it look almost like an art gallery with breakout spaces  open air areas where people can go  and lot of conference rooms. the whole idea was facilitating people to start communicating with each other ” said goenka.the feel is more of an ad agency creative hot shop rather than a typical office. this was taken a level further at raychem rpg  a joint venture with te connectivity  where even the ceo has no cabin. “the idea was to have a fun layout with a homely feel. it reflects the changing mindset  better transparency  giving them a workspace where they can think more creatively ” said goenka.the group  which includes ceat  kec international  zensar technologies  rpg lifesciences and rpg raychem  has introduced a flexi-work-hours policy across its companies and is heavily using technology to connect with people at remote locations. there is also a one rpg taskforce to ensure a uniform policy across the group.“the younger generations are not looking for what is it in there for me but how can i make a difference. they want respect and a culture of open communication apart from career growth ” said goenka.according to the rpg boss  technology will play a big role in this transformation as every company will have to get in for robotic process automation and mundane and repetitive tasks will be taken over by automation.“the new age industry will throw up a lot of jobs which require human brain  creativity  imagination ” he said. “a lot of people think with robots  jobs will disappear  but according to me people will have to reskill themselves ” he added.as a part of the digitisation drive  rpg has hired a chief digital officer in each of its main companies. the role is different from that of the chief information officer. “in kec international  we have started through drones putting the wires on the transmission towers in difficult areas.in nagpur  we have automated our factory into one of the few digitally enabled factories in india ” goenka said.also  with the rising cost of labour  in all its new factories  rpg has done away with the whole layer of supervisors and has self-managed teams where workers are the supervisors  goenka said.</div></div>