<div><div><h2>Retro trip: Companies bring back iconic designs</h2></div><div>new delhi: in the seventies between juggling the education of his eight-year-old son and his government job santosh kumar could only stare at his dream motorcycle in foreign magazines. bonneville a twin-cylinder bike made by british company triumph boasted classic lines. kumar who is currently pushing 70 rode home a brand new one from a dealership in the capital last month. "i am retired my kids are well-settled" he said. "it's time i lived my dream." thousands of consumers like kumar are going back in time as companies launch a slate new products with . from motorcycles and watches to cameras and clothing reissues of are helping them hook new customers and luring back the old ones. "it's a classic case of a trend coming back after the end of a product life cycle" said ashita aggarwal a professor of marketing at mumbai's sp jain institute of management. "for instance bell bottoms made a reemergence in fashion around eight years ago and died a quick death but not before leaving behind some cues for clothing companies to build on. temple jewellery is in vogue currently. tanishq has a plethora of designs based on it. launching nostalgia-themed products also enable companies keep the price high because the customer base is very niche and the products are aspirational." sergi canovas md of ducati india said trends change fast even in the motorcycle segment. "a couple of years ago the interest was in bikes from the forties and fifties" he said. "currently manufacturers are focusing on models from the seventies and eighties. so it's important for them to have all kinds of models in their portfolio to keep up with changing trends." to cash in on the blast from the past classic legends a subsidiary of the mahindra group recently relaunched the jawa brand. it showcased new 300-cc iterations of motorcycles from the seventies and the eighties. chennai-headquartered royal enfield too launched two 650cc twin-cylinder retro-styled motorcycles the continental gt and interceptor which most consumers have only seen in yellowed posters.  "to a certain extent  heritage' hints at quality" said samsika marketing consultants cmd jagdeep kapoor. "if you go to several five-star restaurants you will find tea being served in  kulhads' food being served on banana leaves. consumers get bored easily and by giving them an opportunity to experience what has traditionally been perceived as high-quality you make your products aspirational." kapoor too has succumbed to the trend. he recently bought carvaan the retro-styled bluetooth speaker that comes pre-loaded with 5000 old songs. "it's difficult to find melody these days" he said. the latent demand for old songs has not only made carvaan one of the top-selling bluetooth speakers in india in one year but also helped revive its maker india's oldest record label saregama. around 2.3 lakh units of carvaan were sold in the in the second quarter of 2018-19 a 40% increase in sales. saregama's year-on-year net profit jumped 233% and revenue was up 64% prompting the company to take it to overseas markets such as the usa uk middle east and canada. "people are listening to carvaan for seven-and-a-half hours a day and a kid in delhi recently hosted a rajesh khanna party with it as the music source" said rp-sanjeev goenka group chairman sanjeev goenka. "we had targeted older consumers during the launch but now even younger ones are buying it." a similar trend has played out in apparel and footwear segments. german sportswear company adidas launched its  originals' line of clothing in india to target consumers in the age group of 14-30 years while puma asics and fila brought back themes from their past. "around 30% of our sales currently come from retro-branded footwear and clothing" said puma india md abhishek ganguly. "when people get tired of clicks and glitz they turn to something solid and reassuring" said brand expert harish bijoor. "most products styled on yesteryears are usually high-quality whether its watches cameras or clothing." for instance in the realm of timekeeping watchmakers including omega seiko and oris have launched reissues the railmaster grand seiko and divers sixty-five respectively durable watches that were in vogue decades ago. in cameras erstwhile imaging giants fuji and olympus that were nearly elbowed out of reckoning by mass-market brands canon and nikon have bounced back with sturdy mirrorless cameras that boast heavy-duty hardware and high price tags.</div></div>