<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>liberty house group chairman and nri billionaire sanjeev gupta recently acquired his second indian company adhunik metals through the insolvency resolution process. gupta has shot into prominence with his bold bets in acquiring and turning around stressed steel plants. in an interview with toi  gupta speaks about his strategy  his india foray. excerpts: you have been buying distressed assets in recent years. where does the money come from liberty is in its 26th year. our businesses have made money all through their history. so  it is accruals. let’s say  family money or equity  and we sell off surplus assets — property and stuff — not businesses. that is where the equity comes from. we don’t like debt at the corporate level but we lock in the value and monetise that value in case of a specific asset that can be structured. typical corporates have debt. we don’t as yet.what is your turnaround strategy each situation is different. common themes would be to look at businesses from a different light. for instance  recycling old steel rather than making primary steel. integration is another model. we save 30% of our power costs because we have our own power business  and our banking business helps. the biggest issue is debt. we buy businesses without debt. we bought adhunik metals for less than 20% of its debt.what do you think of the insolvency and bankruptcy code it is frustrating at times as things take forever. but if you look at the history of the country  it is quite a watershed moment. if it was in the uk  and if you were the highest bidder  you would automatically get through. in india  there are all sorts of other complications and you might still risk not getting through even if you are the highest bidder. it is not logical. you have to keep fighting against different currents. bhushan is a good example. even though we are 10% higher than the tatas  there is still a risk we might not get it  which is crazy as there is nowhere else in the world where that would be acceptable. india is still driven quite emotionally rather than rationally.why have you suddenly entered india you should be asking why haven’t. i am of indian origin  with strong roots in india. it’s one of the fastest growing economies in the world. it is the biggest population in the world and growing  one of the youngest populations  one of the lowest per capita consuming economies in the world  which means we have all the growth ahead of us. but it is a difficult place to do business. you can’t predict things entirely. it is tough to work in such environment. it soaks up a lot of time and effort. we have dna which fits  so we can handle india even if it is tough.what other sectors are you interested in india in steel. there are a few others we are interested in. the biggest one is bhushan  which is still being fought out. it is one of a handful of plants in india  which has the infrastructure to be a 10-million-tonne plant. in india  to create new large-scale capacity is very difficult. we are also going for abg shipyard. we will win it. it is a closed shipyard right now. we will scrap the ships and make steel. the way breaking ships is done in india and bangladesh leads to lots of oil spills  accidents and hundreds of deaths. we will do it using big ship lifts mechanically and break it in an environmentally acceptable way. we also plan to invest in power in india. we are in the process of buying a small business in power  which then will become our springboard to get into the power sector. </div></div>