<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>malls and hotels are becoming new destinations for co-working  or shared office-space providers  because of ready-made infrastructure and the amenities they provide. companies such as awfis  smartworks and indiqube already have a sizeable presence in such institutions across the country and are looking to expand  helped by low rentals.over the last two years  awfis — backed by sequoia capital — has set up centres in ambience mall in gurgaon  nucleus mall in pune  raghuleela and heera panna malls in mumbai and a hotel in hyderabad. each centre has an area of at least 20 000 sqft that can house at least 200 people. the centre in taj deccan hotel in hyderabad is spread over 45 000 sqft. the company says that 3 000 of its total 25 000 seats are located in such destinations.awfis founder and ceo amit ramani said  “one of the advantages of setting it up in a mall is that most of them are located in the best locations  they have good infrastructure  security and other amenities.”many malls are eager to have these centres because they have been seeing shops close and footfalls dropping because of online retail. leasing space out to a co-working space provider ensures steady rentals. co-working spaces have also become hot with both startups — who get good  ready-to-move-in facilities on a pay-as-you-go model  and corporates — who like these spaces especially for their sales teams that tend to be mobile and prefer city centre locations.luxembourg-based international workplace group (iwg) operates four regus business centres in delhi  noida  bengaluru and chennai and is in discussions with hotels to open new centres. iwg india country manager harsh lambah said  “there are hotels that are looking to co-working as revenue generators. we would require a minimum space of 10 000 sqft.”indiqube has a big presence in the leela palace hotel and marriott hotel in bengaluru. co-founder meghna aggarwal says that hotels and co-working go hand in hand  and serve as a good revenue generator for both sides as many places in hotels and malls lie vacant without any concrete usage. </div></div>