<div><div><h2>Why some founders love starting from scratch</h2></div><div>this has been one of the most discussed questions in the domestic startup ecosystem in the fortnight since stepped down suddenly from flipkart the e-commerce major he co-founded over a decade ago. many of bansal s contemporaries are already rolling out their next ventures with significant capital right from the start. these entrepreneurs have successfully exited ventures and have moved on to their second innings. prominent in this club is  who sold freecharge to snapdeal in a $400 million deal in 2015 one of the largest deals of the time in india s internet economy. shah famously a college dropout formally launched his new financial services venture cred last week with $25 million from marquee investors including sequoia. shah is not alone. earlier this year  former co-founder of taxiforsure that was acquired by ola cabs in 2015 started vokal a voice-based knowledge sharing platform with funding from new and old investors of taxiforsure. similarly  who started online travel firm ibibo group which was acquired by bigger rival makemytrip two years ago is starting a new wealth management and advisory platform. kashyap is getting $30 million in the bank as he looks to start the new venture. myntra founder has been working on his second venture curefit for about two years having raised over $150 million from investors. again investors from myntra like accel and idg ventures (now known as chiratae) backed bansal when he started curefit. what drives them to start again especially when one has made significant money from previous ventures  in fact shah and radhakrishna have been active angel investors in several startups clear indication of the adequate personal capital they have.   shah 38 said it is perhaps the uncertainty when one is building a new business that keeps him going instead of things being certain in a day-to-day job. to be sure the pressure is much more for these founders this time around as expectations are higher from customers fellow founders and of course investors.  the pressure is ten times more this time around (starting cred) but the joy of building something from scratch is a thousand times more than taking an established business and leading it  shah said. he s still pulling all-nighters for cred. radhakrishna echoed this:  the rewards of building a new business from zero are special. that s what keeps me going.  his many investments in startups kept him abreast of what was happening in the domestic startup space and that helped him firming up on his idea for vokal he said. what changes in the new venture  experience is a big difference and maturity of the ecosystem too kashyap said as he gets ready for his next venture.  i am one of the first generation entrepreneurs and when i compare building goibibo to now many things are easier now. i build my current team in 2-3 months but the same took much longer when i was building goibibo. the pool of tech-talent is much wider now and it is easy to convince people to join a new venture  he said.   kashyap noted that overall cost of failure needs to come down in india if more founders are expected to follow cue. shah mentioned globally the success rate of a second or third time founder is higher than first time founders. india s venture capital funds have largely played it safe by backing entrepreneurs who have shown some success with their previous businesses as against founders who might have failed couple of times early in their startups and are trying to start again.  that might not be entirely true but one must also see the gradual maturity cycle a startup ecosystem goes through before it starts producing several second or third time entrepreneurs   founding partner of alteria capital said. karthik reddy managing partner at blume ventures said there is a clear premium to second time founders who have given certain scale of exit to their first ventures.  it is easier to work with someone you already know has proven himself/herself and the rapport is there. it works out smoothly on hiring strategy and other needs of the new startup given they have done exits of close to half a billion  reddy said adding that investors also have bigger expectations on their potential returns while backing a second time founder. this of course is part of what creates all that extra pressure.  it s a healthy pressure though  kashyap said. another advantage for founders is they typically would dilute less of their holding in the company while raising an amount like $30 million in one go compared to when they raised some money in a combination of seed series -a and series-b round. it is well established by now that raising capital for people like shah and others is easier but radhakrishna sounded a note of caution that a  brand or name  only helps raise initial capital; eventually it s the idea and the product-market fit has to be sound. the second innings does prepare one and help avoid mistakes.  it also makes you paranoid about things. you tend to invest more in certain aspects of your business having learnt from past mistakes. for instance with cred we have worked on security of the user data for months and months  shah said. he feels the level of scrutiny of one-week-old cred is facing is as much as freecharge had to a few years in. radhakrishna said there are new mistakes waiting to happen.  being frugal is key. this is one major learning i have had and i am taking it to my new venture also  kashyap added. both investors and founders toi spoke to feel that team-building is core to a startup s success and it makes visible difference working with serial entrepreneurs. for founders too it is critical to get right set of people early on while building the business and experienced executives are more likely to join an established founder than a rookie. for now the likes of shah and kashyap are trying to script a new chapter for themselves and for india s startup story. will they succeed  will others follow their cue </div></div>