<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>the kirloskar family saga has moved to another plane  with the chairman and managing director of kirloskar brothers ltd (kbl) - sanjay kirloskar - suing several members of his family for not adhering to the deed of a family settlement. he has moved pune civil court  seeking damages to the tune of rs 750-crore from his brothers atul  rahul  cousin vikram and late cousin gautam kulkarni's family.the suit hinges on the fact that several members of the kirloskar clan have ventured into the same business as his and hence violated the settlement arrived at in september 2009 between all the family members. the suit filed in june this year in pune civil court  senior division  names not only his brothers and cousins but also their family members.the suit invokes their grandfather shantanu kirloskar's name repeatedly. "under the aegis of shri shantanu laxmanrao kirloskar  the kirloskar group companies were operated and promoted with the intention and tradition of ensuring that the businesses carried on by the companies were controlled and managed with the kirloskar family and were also demarcated between different branches of the family. the business of the kirloskar group of companies were to be complimentary and not competitive inter se i.e. with each other/ members of kirloskar group of companies  in the greater interest of kirloskar group " it states. it further states that before their grandfather passed away in 1994  in 1989 he had executed a will which once again confirmed that "control of each individual kirloskar group company remained within the branch managing that company".in september 2009  the suit states that family members signed a deed of family settlement to avoid 'difference of opinion' and 'clash of attitudes and behaviour of the next generation'. the settlement signed by several members including atul  rahul  vikram and gautam kulkarni  according to the suit  reiterated the non-competing clause. sanjay claims that after the settlement  he performed his part by giving rs 80.50 crore to vikram and gifting shares of kirloskar brothers investments ltd 'worth hundreds of crores' to atul  rahul and gautam kulkarni. the suit states that by gifting shares  he effectively handed over control of kirloskar oil engines ltd (koel) and kirloskar pneumatic ltd (kpl) to his brothers and cousin.the suit claims that his brothers  however  have gone against the settlement. sanjay has cited the case of koel  controlled by his brothers and late gautam kulkarni  venturing into business of trading in electric mono-block and submersible pumps - branded as varsha - an arena in which his company  kbl  is a leader. kbl claims to be india's largest manufacturer and exporter of pumps and asia's largest infrastructure pumping project provider. after sanjay brought the non-competition clause to their notice  koel stopped trading in the pumps  the suit states.there was more of it to come. "on june 21  2017  the plaintiffs (sanjay and kbl) were shocked to learn by way of a press release that koel had acquired 76 per cent stake in la-gajjar machineries pvt ltd  a company engaged in manufacturing and selling electric submersible and monoblock pumps and pump sets (i.e. business which is in direct competition carried out by kbl) and are trying to sell the said pumps in the market " the suit states.this  the suit states 'smacks of mala fides' and in 'direct contravention of clause 15 of the deed of family settlement  which provides that a party shall not engage in directly competitive business with another company of the kirloskar group'.the suit that is scheduled to come up for hearing on august 7  seeks that all those named should adhere to the deed of family settlement and not enter into any business that competes with his or kbl's. he has sought rs 750 crore towards damages.</div></div>