<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>patanjali ayurved has yet to call it quits in the battle for debt-laden ruchi soya industries. even after lenders of ruchi soya voted in favour of adani wilmar — a joint venture between billionaire gautam adani and singapore-based wilmar — the rival bidder patanjali ayurved has moved the bankruptcy court against the lenders’ decision. adani wilmar offered rs 5 474 crore  of which rs 4 300 crore would be paid to banks. patanjali had offered rs 5 765 crore  of which rs 4 065 crore were for payment to lenders. even as the overall payment by patanjali ayurved was higher  adani was deemed the higher one since  as per the evaluation matrix  the settlement of loans has a higher weightage than infusion of funds to run a company.why is patanjali so keen to bag ruchi soya patanjali's ambitious evangelist co-founder ramdev has set a target to dominate the indian fmcg market. in april last year  ramdev said patanjali's target was rs 20 000 crore to rs 25 000 crore turnover in the next three to five years. however  the company closed the last financial year at around the same level as the previous fiscal year’s revenue  rs 10 000 crore. now ramdev's target appears an uphill task given the various challenges patanjali is battling. according to a recent credit suisse report  consumer offtake has declined in many product categories. general trade distribution remains a challenge for the company. excessive extension has led to dilution of ayurvedic credentials. patanjali has seen strong competitive response from large companies with their own ayurvedic offerings. in such circumstances  ruchi soya could prove to be a big leg-up for patanjali. with 3.72 million mt  ruchi soya has the largest oil seed extraction capacity in india. it has around 24 plants of crushing  milling  refining and packaging edible oils. it owns popular brands like nutella  mahakosh  sunrich  ruchi gold and ruchi star. it is one of the largest exporters of value-added soy products. the company had a debt load of nearly rs 12 000 crore as of december 31  2017. it has over rs 4 000 crore of bad debts written off and a net worth deficit of rs 498 crore. ruchi soya is a vital component in patanjali's ambitious growth project. patanjali had signed a deal for refining  processing and packaging edible oil with ruchi soya in march last year. a few months later  patanjali signed another deal with ruchi soya for an exclusive sales and distribution arrangement for the entire range of patanjali edible oils in large packs.packaged edible oils segment  in which adani holds 19% market share while ruchi soya has close to 14%  is expected to see huge growth. vegetable oil consumption in india is increasing  driven by economic growth and rising disposable income. according to a recent report by rabo bank  india's vegetable oil consumption is expected to grow by 3% annually to exceed 34 million tonnes by 2030. "increasing income  urbanisation  changing food habits and deeper penetration of processed foods will be key drivers of future consumption growth of edible oil in the country " said the rabo research report titled 'the future of india's edible oil industry: how will india's vegetable oil demand shape up by 2030'. </div></div>