<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>the road to waste recycling company let’s recycle’s plant on the outskirts of ahmedabad  is lined with opportunity. you could be forgiven for failing to recognise it  however.on this journey through pirana  far from the city’s urban sprawl  mounds of refuse dot the fields beyond the kerb on both sides. this is where most of the solid waste ends up  in this city of 5.6 million. the giant landfills further ahead look the same as in other indian cities — open and overflowing hillocks of garbage  turning the air all around acrid.a small part of this waste is now making its way to let’s recycle’s four-storied  dry-waste processing unit  spread over 1.2 acres. here  half-a-dozen workers do a cursory sorting of the waste to remove glass and metal pieces. a conveyor belt then carries the waste into a whirring machine. inside  an optical sensor scans through the rubbish to sift plastic and paper  based on how light reflects off these. the various kinds of plastic are then manually separated and sent to recyclers or turned into granules or lumps and sold to plastic makers. the recycled output becomes raw material for units making plastic containers and pvc pipes  among others.they might have set out to turn garbage into gold  but sandeep patel and dhrumin patel (not related)  two of the founders of let’s recycle  are allies in india’s efforts to fight climate change. theirs is among a string of ventures  big and small  in sectors such as renewable energy  electric vehicles  climate-resilient agriculture and waste management  that are at a happy confluence where business success also means a better environment. the collective opportunity in these sectors in the next decade is in the billions of dollars  as india and other large economies race against time to clamp down on emissions and meet obligations under the paris agreement of 2015.but how does a small waste recycler in ahmedabad help the environment urban waste management is key to slowing climate change. recycling plastic means eliminating the use of hydrocarbons that would otherwise have been used to make new plastic. and those overflowing landfills by the way  deadly for the environment.organic waste that decomposes in landfills produces methane — a greenhouse gas (ghg) whose impact on the environment is 25 times greater than carbon dioxide (co2) over 100 years. methane from waste accounted for 17% of india’s total non-co2 emissions in 2016 and 5% of its ghg emissions in 2016  according to pbl netherlands environmental assessment agency.india’s obligations under the paris agreement are onerous. and if climate change is not contained  the impact on india’s people could be cataclysmic.the 2015 paris agreement  signed by 195 countries  vowed to keep the global temperature rise this century to well below 2° celsius above pre-industrial levels and strive to further limit the increase to below 1.5° celsius. india  the world’s third largest emitter of co2 in absolute terms  has committed to cutting its emissions by a third by 2030 from 2005 levels.according to a recent world bank study  if india does not act on climate change  by 2050  living standards (as measured by consumption expenditures) could fall by 2.8 percentage points. nearly 150 million indians live in climate hotspots where living standards could decline by more than eight percentage points. inaction could shave $1.12 trillion off the country’s gdp by 2050. besides  coastal cities like mumbai and kolkata face the risk of flooding over the next century. in the event of a temperature rise of 2° celsius by 2050  india will have to import more than twice the foodgrain it will be required to without climate change. it’s a mission whose importance can’t be overstated.let’s recycle’s efforts in ahmedabad are part of a 14-year public-private partnership with the city’s municipal corporation. the plant  built at a cost of rs 11 crore to handle 100 tonnes per day (tpd)  currently processes around 55 tpd of solid waste. ahmedabad generated 2 500 tpd of solid waste in 2015-16 (latest available figure). according to a central government estimate in 2014  more than 80% of urban india’s 62 mt annual solid waste went to landfills.“from our plant  we don’t send anything to landfills ” says sandeep  the entrepreneur. let’s recycle’s parent company nepra resource management has raised rs 72 crore in equity funding from aavishkar and asha impact — impact investors who prioritise beneficial social or environmental impact alongside a financial return.with the latest round of funding  nepra is looking to expand to three more cities. sandeep says nepra’s revenues will double to rs 60 crore this financial year and the company is ebitda-positive (ebitda is earnings before interest  taxes  depreciation and amortisation). ebitda indicates a company’s financial performance and earnings potential.the centre’s waste management rules of 2016 and the swachh bharat mission have forced municipal corporations to take waste management more seriously. letting private companies take the lead is the best option available for bloated  fundstarved city administrations. “everybody is trying to make a model independent of urban local bodies ” says roshan miranda  cofounder of hyderabad-based waste ventures  a digital waste pickup platform for households and small enterprises.world bank’s sister organisation  the international finance corporation (ifc)  estimates that between 2018 and 2030  municipal solid waste management in india has an investment potential of $11 billion. among the other climate-related sectors with huge investment opportunities are evs ($667 billion  based on the government’s initial target of disallowing non-ev cars by 2030)  renewable energy ($404 billion) and climate-smart agriculture ($194 billion).clean energy  green planetrenewable energy is crucial to india’s emission-reduction plans. in 2015  the government set a target of 175 gw (1 gw is 1 000 mw) of renewable energy capacity by 2022  which it recently said might be achieved earlier. as of now  india has an installed renewable energy capacity of 69 gw. wind power accounts for half of this capacity and solar power almost a third. india wants to double the contribution from renewable energy sources to 40% of total capacity by 2030.thermal power  predominantly based on coal (a major pollutant)  makes up almost two-thirds of india’s energy capacity now.three-fourths of the government’s target of 175 gw are set to come from solar and that is reflective of the increased investor interest in the sector. the price-perunit developers quote in bids has slid by more than 65% from five years ago — a sign that solar power is becoming affordable. the fall in bid prices was accompanied by a fall in the cost of solar panels over the same period. ashish sethia  asia-pacific head of research at bloomberg new energy finance (bnef)  says china’s phasing out of subsidies for the solar industry will bring down panel prices by a third this year  as a result of china’s not adding as much capacity as earlier thought.india provides capital subsidies for rooftop solar installations but not for groundmounted ones. shashi shekhar  vice-chairman of acme group  among the country’s largest solar power developers  says the sector is attractive even without government incentives. acme solar holdings has an operational capacity of 1 700 mw and 1 900 mw under construction and development.the potential these companies see have made them raise the bar. acme and renew power  which has the largest renewable energy portfolio (wind and solar) in the country  are both planning to go public. renew hopes to raise rs 2 600 crore from the initial public offering. its investors  including goldman sachs  are selling a part of their stake  with the size of the total issue reportedly being around rs 7 000 crore. renew in april acquired ostro energy  a competitor  for an undisclosed amount. it has an operational portfolio of over 3 920 mw and a capacity of around 1 670 mw under development.for the nine months ended december 2017  renew reported revenues of rs 2 105 crore  up nearly 80% from the corresponding period in 2016. its net profit slid from rs 184 crore to rs 140 crore  partly on account of a doubling of finance costs. renew declined comment for the article  due to the silent period ahead of the ipo.renewable energy in india  particularly solar  is a key focus area in climate finance  which refers to financing from public  private and alternative sources to help developing countries mitigate or adapt to climate change. in 2016  global climate finance totalled $383 billion  nearly two-thirds of which came from the private sector  according to the climate policy initiative. this included fund sources such as project developers  commercial finance institutions  national budgets  multilateral agencies and development banks. india was the largest recipient of financing by climate funds  a small component of climate finance  as of january 2018  at $1.13 billion.renewable power projects have become a “straightforward  bread-and-butter business” for indian lenders  says shalabh tandon  head of operations  south asia  ifc.electric vehicles (evs) have also become central to the discussion on business in times of climate change. the indian government first said by 2030  all new cars that would be sold would be electric. later  a more realistic target of 30% of new cars sold was set. bnef estimates passenger ev sales in india will be only 6.6% of total sales by 2030  much lower than the government’s target  and 27% by 2040.evs are important for india to reduce emissions and to pare its crude oil import bill (estimated to be rs 5.7 lakh crore in 2017-18).riding on electricthe government provides buyers subsidy of up to rs 22 000 for an electric scooter and up to nearly rs 1.4 lakh for an electric car. china  the biggest market for evs and the largest supplier of batteries  provides subsidies that are three times higher for electric fourwheelers  relative to the price of the vehicle  than india.but that has not been enough to drive up demand. “how do you expect people to buy evs when there are no good products ” asks ravneet phokela  chief business officer of ather energy  a startup that opened bookings for its first electric scooters in bengaluru last month. around 2 000 electric passenger vehicles were sold in india in 2017-18  compared with the overall passenger vehicle sales of 3.29 million. about 52 000 electric scooters were sold  compared with total two-wheeler sales of 20.2 million  in the period. ather  which has raised $43 million in funding from hero motocorp and tiger global  hopes to ship 7 000-8 000 units within the first year of launch.there has been speculation that the government might withdraw the subsidy. the government will prioritise fleet operators over individual buyers when it comes to subsidies  says sohinder gill  spokesperson for the society of manufacturers for electric vehicles. but ev makers like mahindra electric mobility and ather energy want the subsidies to continue till the industry achieves scale. “if we can’t succeed after that  we don’t deserve to be in this business ” says phokela of ather.while it is clear the transition to evs is a question of when  rather than if  challenges are abound. the inability of evs to run for long on a single charge and the lack of charging stations  besides the relatively steep price tag  have kept buyers away. ather wants to change this situation. by december  it hopes to have 50-55 charging locations in bangalore  with 1-3 charging points at each.as the battery is the heart of an ev and india cannot boast of a homegrown battery ecosystem  automakers have to depend on imports and partnerships with foreign companies. earlier this year  mahindra & mahindra joined hands with lg chem to develop lithium-ion batteries for its evs. “for the next five years  lithium-ion is going to be the primary (battery) technology ” says mahesh babu  ceo of mahindra electric mobility. the company sold around 4 000 units in 2017-18  nearly a third of which were cars and the rest rickshaws and vans. it is investing rs 900 crore in the business over four years.mahindra  along with tata motors  also won a tender to supply electric cars to a government agency  which aims to replace cars used by government officials with evs. in phase-1 of the project  tata had to supply 350 units and mahindra 150. it was part of a much bigger contract for 10 000 evs for the two companies.smarter farmswhile renewable energy and electric vehicles will help india mitigate climate change  it also has to be better prepared to deal with the effects of climate change in agriculture — a sector that employs close to 50% of the workforce. the preparation would involve deepening the penetration of micro-irrigation systems  which brings down water use by half  and wider use of drought- and floodresistant varieties of crops.anil jain  managing director of jain irrigation systems  india’s largest and the world’s second biggest micro-irrigation company  sees a huge opportunity in this space. only 10 million hectares of farmland in india have micro-irrigation. the potential is 70 million. central and state government subsidies would mean the farmer pays only half the cost of the drip- and sprinkler-irrigation systems  which could go up to rs 2 lakh per hectare (1 hectare is 2.47 acres). the union government in may set up a rs 5 000 crore microirrigation fund to expand coverage.jain  whose company logged a revenue of rs 7 950 crore in 2017-18  says precision agriculture  of which micro-irrigation is a part  along with the use of solar pumps (subsidised by the government) could reduce both costs and the carbon footprint of a farm. bnef estimates that there are 20 million pumps running on diesel or subsidised electricity. diesel pumps use an estimated $2 billion worth of fuel every year.there are economic opportunities in other climate-related sectors such as green buildings and energy efficiency. as awareness grows of risks associated with climate change  naturally more money will find its way to companies addressing related risks. however  as bnef’s sethia says  “putting a climate-friendly tag on a project is nice  but it doesn’t move the needle on investment decisions. it works on economics.” in the end  caring about the planet is great  but money will only follow robust business bets.</div></div>