<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>sanjiv bajaj managing director bajaj finserv and winner of economic times' business leader of the year 2018  said that the success is not only about restarting traditional businesses but also transforming them to lead in the digital era.in the past decade  sanjiv bajaj  the younger of rahul bajaj’s two sons  has turned the financial services business into a money-making machine by itself. revenue and profit have zoomed and so have the returns to shareholders. bajaj finserv and bajaj finance  the two listed companies have a combined market capitalisation of about 30 times more than at the end of fiscal 2008.while funding the purchase of bajaj auto’s products had provided assured business  sanjiv bajaj gambled with other businesses after the automobile business went to elder brother rajiv  and has come out a winner. he has diversified the business into consumer and sme finance  insurance  financial advisory and wealth management  from primarily auto finance in 2008.“the last 10 years have been a tremendous journey for us at bajaj finserv from issuing a few hundred thousand loans a year to this year when we should do 40 million loans and insurance policies mostly to consumers and sme customers ” said bajaj. “of these  nearly 8 million individuals will enter the formal financial credit system for the first time this year  getting the first formal loan from us. this is the opportunity that the country provides. also  in this age of start ups  my team and i have been happy to demonstrate that you can restart existing traditional businesses and not only restart them but transform them to lead in this digital era.”bajaj finserv’s insurance businesses  both life and general  are doing extremely well. bajaj allianz general insurance is among the most profitable private sector general insurance companies in the country. in fact  it is the only general insurer that has been reporting an underwriting profit.he thanked his 40 000 colleagues across the three businesses bajaj finance  bajaj allianz life and general insurance. “in this journey i have been supported by over 40 000 colleagues across bajaj finance  bajaj allianz life and general insurance ably lead by rajiv  tapan and tarun  this award belongs to all of them. my father who is over here  my uncle nanoo  their continued support without which this would not have been possible. my wife shefali who is here and the larger family  some very close friends from pune  thank you all of them. though i have a nasty suspicion that many of them just came here to see if i am actually getting an award ” bajaj said. the nbfc loan book has remained strong due to the care that bajaj finance takes in the choice of borrowers as well as its robust risk management. its net non-performing assets at 0.38% are among the lowest in the nbfc industry. it has expanded into emi card propositions with offerings in retail categories like fashion  travel  insurance and daily spending like on groceries and small appliances.bajaj’s comment on the eventit was a well organised event with some interesting discussions & speeches. this award is special for my colleagues & me as it marks our 10 year journey of building bajaj finserv. it encourages us to continue our endeavour of being the financial enabler of every indian’s dreams</div></div>