<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: rupee's fall may dampen positive sentiments flowing in from the latest round of gst rate cut as tv manufacturers and car makers are evaluating price hikes.rising interest rates in the us along with global uncertainty over trade war has seen strengthening of dollar over the past few months as rupee plunged to an all-time low of rs 69.1 against the greenback on july 19. it is among the worst-performing asian currencies. indications are the situation may continue for some more time. a weaker rupee makes imports more expensive and raises costs for domestic manufacturers."we are feeling the impact (from a weak rupee). we may evaluate prices " r s kalsi  senior director (marketing and sales) at maruti suzuki  told toi.the country's biggest carmaker carries a high degree of localization on most of its products. but  it still has a substantial exposure to foreign currency through own purchases as well as that of vendors. components coming from abroad include electrical  inner parts  ecus  engine and transmission parts. payment of royalty to japanese parent suzuki and other variables also impact the company's finances.toyota said it is looking at developments around rupee very closely.luxury car  tv makers brace for impactit is a cause for concern. if it continues  we will need to review (prices) whenever we enter into next rate contract revision with suppliers " a company official said  though adding  "there is no immediate review (of prices) in the offing".luxury carmakers  who are net importers of aggregates used in car assembly  are also concerned. "we are watching the trend cautiously and will act accordingly " roland folger  md & ceo of mercedes-benz india  said. folger said a fall in currency carries a "ripple effect of lower investments  higher import cost  (and) high inflation  which increases the burden on companies  government as well as consumers." however  he ruled out an immediate impact on prices.audi india head rahil ansari said  "we would not be in a position to protect prices in the long run if rupee gets weaker."some television makers are talking of a price hike from next month if situation does not improve. "it is increasingly getting difficult to manage the situation. if this persists  i expect prices to go up from the first week of august  especially for 32-inch panel " manish sharma  md & ceo of panasonic india  said.officials of sony also said the rupee fall is a concern. "we are watching the situation as of now " satish padmanabhan  head of sales at sony india  said.avneet marwah  ceo of super plastronics that sells thomson tv  said come august  prices of 32-inch category may go up by 15%  while the bigger screens may be dearer by 10%.</div></div>