<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>the chosen oneending months of speculation  carlyle has finally found a no 2. or shall we say india co-head  a little bird tells us vikram narula  the cofounder of homegrown fund true north  is moving to the us private equity giant next month. this after several candidates from bulgebracket peers apparently turned down the offer and a third local search firm had to be brought in after the first two global ones pretty much exhausted all their options. there’s a dinner planned this month-end with the team and its partners before he puts the war paint on and jumps right in. and  he’s reporting to hong kong  according to the buzz.un canadien errantcirque du soleil  the legendary canadian troupe  is visiting india this winter for the first time  say the billboards and radio spots. actually  this would be its first public visit. an aesthetically inclined businessman had them over to perform for his son’s nuptials. considering he had invited half of the forbes rich list  he was looking for a spectacle to entertain his uber-exclusive friends. and what’s more spectacular than an hour-long performance by cirque du soleil musical chairsin this season of mega leadership churn at the big banks  when the asia head of a blue-blooded global bank visits india and meets key central bank officials  you can easily expect all tongues to wag. what added grist to the mill was that the visit coincided with the incumbent country head’s overseas trip. several theories are floating around and all we can advise you at this point is to watch this space for the next update.hi  whatsapp beyond meeting ministers  hacks and his own crew  chris daniels  the freshly minted boss of whatsapp  had a great time meeting ngos  the security services and even small businessmen during his weeklong recent india trip to figure out how the messaging platform is being used by millions. after all  who wants to be bombarded with negativity all the time  especially when accurate messaging may have been one of the casualties following a key meeting.matinee showwe’ve been reading how the blame game is playing out between the singh brothers malvinder and shivinder and their now-estranged comrade and ‘third brother’ sunil ‘religare’ godhwani. but the gent himself doesn’t seem to be all that fazed. we spotted him last week with family and friends at the plush pvr director’s cut in south delhi without so much as a frown creasing his brow  refuting all those rumours of him having flown to cyprus. picture abhi baaki hain  as they say.towering ambitionit’s one of those plush addresses reserved for bank ceos and private equity fat cats that even played a role during the mistry versus tata mahabharat. homes in the imperial twin towers in tardeo  where monthly rents can be `5 lakh  have always been an owner’s pride and neighbours’ envy. but for those who missed out last time  get your cheque books out for we hear a third tower is coming up at the adjacent plot that will be among the tallest of all and perhaps the plushest. but if you have been groaning about mumbai’s midtown traffic  get set for more misery when that apartment block fills up.back to the beginninguday kotak is known for being lowkey in an industry full of flashy corporate stars. instead of holding parties at festival time  he donates to charity. kotak and his directors have lunch in the office canteen with the other employees. he also doesn’t forget his roots. once every few months  kotak visits the third-floor office at navasari building—home to the kotak family business—near fort in mumbai  where he started off with bill discounting.people's mankotak is also loyal to longtime colleagues. many of the team members who started with him in the bill-discounting business have stayed with kotak. when his first employee wanted to leave the firm after a decade or so  kotak refused to accept his resignation letter. that person now plays a key role in some of the social welfare activities of the kotak foundation. another investment banker who wanted to leave was offered the chance to work three days a week and now heads the entire investment banking business.comfort leaveever since he came on board at investment bank rothschild’s india unit  its new leader has been particular about employee welfare. he wanted team leaders to rise from the ranks rather than replacing seniors with lateral hires. he has also introduced what can be described as comfort leave. every member can take leave on any friday of the month in addition to the weekly holidays to unwind and to spend time with family. the person will also be expected to completely disconnect from office work.</div></div>