<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by jeff greenof the at least 24 female chief executive officers of s&p; 500 companies who’ve stepped down since 2009  all but three have been replaced by a man  according to an analysis of data on executive departures compiled quarterly by recruiter spencer stuart. that includes pepsico inc. ceo indra nooyi  who announced monday that she’ll leave the post in october  and at least four other women this year.the largest companies have struggled to elevate women  who hold only about 5 percent of ceo positions. progress has stalled even amid the revelations of harassment or other misconduct brought to light by the #metoo movement and pressure from investors such as state street corp. and blackrock inc. to get boards to add diversity.“despite the advances that females have made over the last 10 years  and the big push that’s going on to get them into executive positions  if you look at the talent pool of available individuals  it’s going to be mostly men ” said tom flannery  who leads the global chief executive board services practice at boyden  an executive recruiter. “just from a pure odds standpoint  most of the time  when a ceo is replaced  it’s going to be with a man.”the departure of nooyi drops the number of women ceos in the s&p; 500 to 23  according to bloomberg analysis and data compiled by researcher catalyst. kathy warden is scheduled to become ceo of northrop grumman corp. in january.nooyi  62  who will stay on as chairman until early 2019  is being replaced as ceo by ramon laguarta  54  who has been a candidate to take over since a promotion last year to president. in addition to being pepsico’s first woman leader  nooyi  who is from india  is also the first foreign-born ceo of the company  whose revenue topped $63 billion last year.in the executive ranks  women tend to concentrate in positions such as chief financial officer  general counsel and head of human resources. those roles are less likely to result in promotion to ceo than executives who serve as president or chief operating officer  jobs most often held by men  especially when there’s a female at the helm. kohl’s corp. is a rare exception because both its ceo  michelle gass  and its president  sona chawla  are women.‘overbalanced’ boardsthe blame falls partly to corporate boards  which are “overbalanced by males ” said flannery at boyden.“not only are they dominated by males  but the males that are on boards are mostly baby boomers  some are even war babies  and there are very few gen xers and even fewer millennials ” he said. “these are people to whom the whole female gender movement is new.”debra crew’s promotion to succeed susan cameron as ceo at reynold’s american inc. early last year was the first female-to-female handover in the s&p; 500 in six years  according to spencer stuart data. the distinction was short-lived because even before she took the job  british american tobacco plc said it would buy reynold’s. crew departed the company late last year.prior to crew  the last time a female ceo was replaced by another woman in the s&p; 500 was in 2012  when sheri mccoy succeeded andrea jung at avon products inc. mccoy announced her resignation last year from avon  which is no longer in the index. she was eventually replaced by a man. in 2009  ursula burns was the first woman to replace a female ceo of a s&p; 500 company -- anne mulcahy at xerox corp. when burns stepped down from the role at the end of 2016  she was replaced by a man.according to a 2018 report by grant thornton  executive teams globally slipped to being just 24 percent female from 25 percent a year earlier.“why is it when a woman ceo leaves  we laser focus all this attention on her and her successor with the expectation that she is the only person who has a responsibility  or an expectation that we put on her as a society  that she will then appoint another woman ” asked heather foust-cummings  senior vice president of research and consulting at catalyst  which advocates for more women in executive ranks.“and yet we’re not asking why male ceos are not cultivating that talent and creating a succession plan that enables more women to ascend to the ceo office.”</div></div>