<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by pranav saytachange is not new. as charles darwin’s work in the origin of species may suggest  it is not the strongest of species that survives  nor the most intelligent  but the one most adaptable to change. what seems different though  is that today  we live in an era of unprecedented change brought about by human ingenuity and huge leaps in technology and globalisation  the magnitude and pace of which boggles even the most imaginative of minds. while businesses have always lived  and even thrived  amid uncertainties  the current environment throws up unique challenges — and indeed opportunities — with the need to constantly adapt  evolve and innovate like never before. this is true for every business – and family businesses are no exception. in particular  they need to deal with some unique issues. for one  family businesses typically have a mix of various members across generations jointly involved in the business  including decision-making. procuring broader acceptance of any new idea – adapt and change – is not always easy. second  family businesses are typically rooted in tradition and a certain ‘way’ of doing business. again  the need to constantly attract and retain young and upcoming talent — including from within the family — has never been greater. while this is imperative  the challenge on this front is very real and cannot be over-emphasised. in fact  an ey survey in 2015 indicated that less than one in five members of the next generation intend to join their family business. further  family businesses need to ensure they keep the entrepreneurial spirit and hunger alive in the upcoming generation. family businesses also have some very unique strengths  which  when appropriately harvested or leveraged  have repeatedly yielded results and helped deliver consistent growth across generations. for instance  they have time and again demonstrated the ability to act quickly and decisively. while such nimbleness has always been a source of great strength for family businesses  it can be hugely advantageous in the current environment  given the pace of change. the need for quick decisions  a clear and precise strategy  immediate action and intensity of execution is critical like never before. again  one of the unique differentiators of a family business has always been the ‘longterm’ mindset – as is said  family businesses think not in terms of quarters  but in generations. the ey global family business survey 2018 brought to light an interesting fact that the majority of family-run firms used internal accruals and capital from family members for not only growing business  but also for innovation. this demonstrates that they have the willingness to invest and to persevere with deep conviction  without significant dependence on outside capital or insistence on immediate returns. this long-term commitment helps family business owners deal better with challenging situations and can  indeed  be a significant advantage in today’s fast-changing environment filled. family businesses that have developed a sound governance framework  along with a culture of clear and transparent communication among members  have time and again emerged as winners. in the present environment  the ability to straddle multiple generations and different viewpoints harmoniously and seamlessly is critical. it can make the difference between winning and losing. while the spirit of entrepreneurship may have been the foundation for success in the first place  family businesses may need to recognise the need to constantly reinvent themselves. businesses  the ways of doing business and what brought success thus far  may not necessarily be the most appropriate for ensuring success  going forward. this willingness to adapt and change  embrace new ideas  technologies  concepts and business models and enter new unchartered territories  may well be the key to future success. this flexibility need not compromise on (and should not be viewed as compromising) the core family values and business vision integral to the family and which the business stands for. involvement of future generations has been one of the cornerstones for sustenance and growth of family businesses. they recognise the role the next generation can play when it comes to identifying and mitigating disruptive threats and harnessing emerging technologies . however  meeting the aspirations of upcoming talent in the family and motivating them to join the family business  is key to their success. adequately empowering the next generation  providing appropriate opportunities and autonomy could help create a welcoming environment. this  in turn  can go a long way in ensuring success and growth  building on the strong foundations already laid by previous generations. some of the world’s largest and oldest family businesses have long learned to adapt and innovate  with their ever-evolving environments. in many cases  they have pioneered disruption. several have diversified into very different businesses from their traditional family business and are successfully leading those sectors today. it is not hard to find such family businesses in sectors such as technology or telecom  which were emerging in the indian environment a couple of decades ago  when these families chose to venture into these areas. while experience has  and will  always be mixed  there are family businesses successfully transforming themselves while adapting to the current environment. time is likely to prove darwin right again – the fittest will indeed survive and thrive.* the writer is partner and leader  family business services  ey india</div></div>