<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>it’s the age of customisation. so why leave employees behind customising experiences of employees at organisations  based on their preferences and patterns  are ceeos — or chief employee experience officers. with technology playing a big role in human resources and reams of data getting generated  large organisations are rushing to appoint ceeos to curate experiences for employees at the workplace.at consumer products major unilever  leaders spearheading such initiatives are called employee experience makers. at professional services firm ey  a global leader is responsible for the organisation’s efforts to build experiences for each of its over 250 000 people — from recruiting to learning  development & coaching to building a better working world through corporate responsibility and volunteerism efforts. an early mover was airbnb  which has reportedly dedicated a team for employee experiences  and it looks at every aspect of an employee’s journey from the time he/she is on-boarded.unilever chro leena nair said  “experience curators are coming up in a big way. when there is so much happening on the technology front  as an employee you want somebody to walk you through the experiences. experience curators will become important in hr. at unilever  we have employee experience maker leads for this task.”ey partner & national leader (workforce advisory) anurag malik said the ceeo is one who plays the role of a mini ceo — working across organisational boundaries to own an employee’s journey  designing & delivering distinctive experiences  and bringing alive the organisation  its values and culture in every employee interaction to make that emotional connect. “he champions ey’s commitment to inclusiveness and related diversity issues  and in building and supporting career mobility ” said malik  adding  “in our experience  creating inspirational employee experiences requires business leaders to take an elevated perspective beyond functional and operational metrics.”shrm india associate director (knowledge & advisory) dedeepya ajith john said since companies have moved away from the traditional appraisal process and are empowering managers/employees to have real-time insights into their workforce performance  many organisations have taken to hiring people into the role of ‘employee engagement officer’ or ‘employee experience curator’ or ‘social collaboration manager’.such efforts are aimed at creating a culture that builds high-performing teams that deliver exceptional client service  while building lifelong relationships with people. specialist staffing firm xpheno’s co-founder kamal karanth connects the trend to millennials. “the reality is companies are experiencing an influx of millennials and they are rebranding hr functions. given that tech has overtaken part of the training role  people in hr feel the need to compensate for the lack of touch in the form of experience to employees ” said karanth.</div></div>