<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>four persons of india-origin  including three women  have been named by fortune among 40 of the most influential and inspiring young people in business under the age of 40. instagram cofounder and ceo kevin systrom and facebook founder mark zuckerberg  both 34  are tied for first place on the fortune '40 under 40' list. chief finance officer of the us' largest automaker  general motors dhivya suryadevara comes in at the 4th spot  followed by vimeo ceo anjali sud (14)  cofounder and co-ceo of robinhood baiju bhatt (24) and female founders fund founding partner anu duggal (32). for the first time ever  fortune also assembled a "supplementary honour roll" of the most impressive  young superstars who are transforming business at the leading edge of finance and technology.  the 'ledger 40 under 40' supplementary honour roll  list shines a light on the pioneers building some of the world's fastest-growing businesses.  this list includes senior vice president of product at real-time currency exchange and remittance network ripple  39-year old asheesh birla  digital currency wallet and platform coinbase's chief technology officer balaji srinivasan  director of mit digital currency initiative neha narula and coinbase's vice president of operations tina bhatnagar. fortune said suryadevara  39 made history when it was announced she would become gm's first female cfo later this year  making the auto giant one of only two fortune 500 companies led by a female ceo and cfo (the other is chocolate giant hershey). sud  34 joined video-sharing website vimeo as head of marketing in 2014 and was last year named ceo  charged with focusing vimeo as a cloud-based platform for video creation  distribution  and monetization  targeting individuals and small- to medium-size businesses. bhatt  33 cofounded financial services company robinhood with vlad tenev in 2013 as an "egalitarian challenge to oldguard brokerage houses. five years later  it has shot to a valuation of $5.6 billion." this year the company added bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies to the trading mix and now hope to build robinhood into a full-blown digital bank  fortune said. duggal  39  launched female founders fund in 2014 as a seed-stage venture fund to invest in female-led technology companies. she had initially raised five million dollars and by may of this year  she closed $27 million for her second early-stage fund  with a roster of limited partners including philanthropist melinda gates  fortune said.</div></div>