<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>suspense accountmint street is super eager to figure out the real reason behind the frequent trips to india by the asia head of this global bank. we wrote about it a few weeks back but the buzz of speculation has become louder. in this season of fat-cat banking honchos coming under the regulator’s scrutiny  all sorts of theories are being spun around the local top boss  especially about the longevity of his tenure. it has been a stellar run so far and everyone wants to know if there is any twist in the tale.no smoke without firea spate of junior-level exits  big bold bets allegedly gone south  pushback from hq  even murmurs of a probe. the whispers around this heavy hitting global private equity fund are also gathering momentum after a dream run in india that saw it rewrite the rules of the game for good. executives maintain that everything is fine and  in fact  the pe fund is going ahead with growth plans  but the chatter persists. no smoke without fire they say  but if so  that may mean facing up to some uncomfortable truths.back to the cockpitthis high-flying aviation executive currently busy with social work may soon step back into what he does best–running an enterprise. we are told he already has an offer and it’s just a matter of time before he navigates his way back into the corporate cockpit one way or another. he maintains a stoic silence when friends ask him about this and denies it when hacks pester him  but we hear the organisation in question is working out his exact future role and designation. a sector that’s going through so much turbulence surely needs some steady hands.concert by the lakeif you have set an impossibly high bar with beyonce  everything else will seem to pale in comparison. john legend performing for a private gathering at lake como for the engagement party of the wedding of the year too did not really cut it. the american singer  actor and chart topper behind all of me and ordinary people fills stadiums with his soulful r&b; and has won accolades from the likes of alicia keys  lauryn hill and even jay-z  aka mr beyonce. but singing at a grand desi shaadi is a whole new ball game. after all  what’s a wedding without thumkas dance dramaour ceo friends in ahmedabad offered the latest insight that’s doing the rounds as the state celebrates navratri. the season of festivities is a time of heavy corporate sponsorship  typically a matter of great pride  ego and mega bucks. but the major garba venues mostly feature only two names—reliance jio and adani. achhe din anyone else mama’s boy“ladies and gentlemen  i present to you the mother of all mothers.” that’s an overjoyed keshav suri  lgbtq activistson and hotel scion  talking about supermom jyotsna  chairperson and managing director of lalit hotels  former ficci president and wife of the late lalit suri. “she is a proud mom of a queer person and most importantly  an ally to our community. she is the reason that an institution like ficci is partaking in a dialogue that queers the pitch.” the delhibased duo are launching ks foundation  which started its journey with queering the pitch. the foundation will be a platform for dialogue on lgbtq issues. keshav suri  incidentally  is one of the five official petitioners who successfully fought for the repeal of section 377.scoring off the fieldpawan munjal and pele with some peaty malts on the rocks along with bubbly on the side. that’s an evening to remember  right  munjal  himself a sports enthusiast  was all dapper in a pink linen shirt at a private dinner last week in delhi  but turns out he’s quite a fanboy too  all ears to learn more about the celebrated ginga. who wouldn’t melt  though  when shaking hands with a living legend like that bearish toneone of the big bulls in the market is in a bearish mood as many of his stocks have nosedived. though he finds comfort in a jewellery maker with rising september sales  his earlier purchase of a computer education company is in tatters. and now the latest deal to buy a health insurance company is facing legal hurdles.house huntingsome have a thing for million-dollar real estate deals. even when their professional graph has reached its nadir  some just can’t keep their hands off one if a juicy opportunity presents itself. this garrulous top boss  whose own asset acquisitions have already caused enough heartburn  has set his eyes on a new acquisition in the building where the family lives. the current owner  though  is having second thoughts  wondering whether he might get sucked into the media and publicity whirlpool once news gets out.party timelast week  the chief financial officer of a large conglomerate with interests from salt to software had a party at his palatial home. though there was no particular occasion  the cfo  a former investment banker  had invited his close friends  residents of the building and some wellwishers. some said he must have been celebrating the success of a series of acquisitions by group companies. incidentally  the party had no one from the group.lost chancedebt-laden il&fs; might have been a different story if it had stuck to its strategy to build and sell. while it may have succeeded with many businesses  from mutual funds to institutional equities  it lost a big chance to sell il&fs; toll network  which is the primary reason for ballooning debt. two years after its listing  a diversified conglomerate offered rs 260 a share to buy the company at a 20% premium. but the management is said to have insisted on an additional rs 10 apiece. the deal was called off. the shares are in double digits now.(privy to the whispers in power corridors or juicy tips on india inc  do share with us at etsuits.sayings@gmail.com)</div></div>