<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>bangkok callingtelecom sector hotshots  policymakers and consumer activists are flying to bangkok next month to run a status check on the upcoming challenges facing india’s digital and broadband future. participants will exchange notes on the impact of high-speed broadband and e-governance initiatives on the delivery of healthcare services and education in india  vietnam and the philippines. they will also deliberate on ways to deal with data privacy violations and take stock of looming cyber security challenges in an increasingly connected world. telecom minister manoj sinha  telecom regulatory authority of india chairman rs sharma and top officials of the geneva-based international telecom union (itu) are tipped to be the stars of the pan-asian telecom conclave.lux padmumbai’s super luxury skyscrapers often get tagged for the kind of people who live in them. so if ncpa apartments was preferred by ceos  twin towers in tardeo became the hub for private equity bosses. as the action moves onto midtown  the brand new ahuja towers has become the latest hotspot for uber bosses. the investment banking heads of morgan stanley  jp morgan and goldman have moved in as has hindalco’s top gun  among others. we wonder if elevator pitches are going to get a whole new meaning now.bench strengthwe’ve been hearing rumblings from this private equity fund known for its fund-raising prowess. two of its managing directors from the investing side quit recently  leaving just one. the fund needs some handsome exits for sure to keep the momentum going but if key executives depart  it could be a body blow for the fund.internal affairsby now it seems evident that the only internal candidate with a shot at the axis bank top job is retail banking head rajiv anand. known more for his asset management stints in idfc  standard chartered  anand is highly regarded by the leadership and is believed to be competing with two other bank bosses–one from the private sector and the other from a state-owned lender. it appears the regulator will have to take a call on a three-way contest for the job.grand gourmetturns out ratan tata is quite a foodie and that his tastes range much wider than thai pavilion. in the past few weeks  he’s been spotted in london and san francisco at cult michelin-starred restaurants  savouring the tasting menu or a nice steak. and  taj insiders say he doesn’t mind eating alone if he’s not with work associates at a business lunch or dinner. now that’s a man who’s serious about his food.deepening cracksa little bird tells us that all is not well inside this storied mumbai stock broking firm as two of its heads are often seen disagreeing on most things. what has certainly not helped are recent recommendations that have boomeranged big time on ultra high net worth clients  forcing the firm to proffer abject apologies. on top of that  some of the firm’s relatively recent diversifications aren’t exactly thriving.splitting rolesa homegrown investment bank majority owned by private equity funds has divided the responsibilities of the three founders. they will each now look after wealth management  alternative asset management and investment banking  respectively. the measure is aimed at bringing a sharp focus to the group that’s ramping up to a full-fledged financial services firm.swift actiona replacement at one of india’s leading private lenders has hit the ground running. the new chief executive  who successfully ran the group’s insurance business  has given directions to the bank’s top management to stop selling some insurance products as it had led to some miss-selling. he has also got the chief financial officer of the insurance unit to move to the bank.top brassthe recent overseas acquisition of a european chemicals company by a conservative indian business house led to a heated discussion on the board. it appears some directors of the chemical and agricultural input maker were not too keen on the idea as it appeared to be a departure from a previous string of acquisitions because the purchase was at close to eight times operating profit and therefore expensive. earlier acquisitions weren’t higher than four times operating profit.</div></div>