<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>kolkata: do you have what it takes to join the coveted ranking of india’s future leaders  here’s your chance to fight it out with the country’s brightest young talent for your place in the sun. the economic times  in partnership with federal bank  is back with the sixth edition of the economic times young leaders (etyl) programme  the country’s biggest and most rigorous talent hunt to identify  showcase and provide a springboard high-performing young professionals.launched in 2011  etyl has set the benchmark for identifying corporate india’s future leaders. the programme evaluates ambitious  young working professionals between 26 and 32 years of age  on the basis of different leadership parameters set by knowledge partner shl  a global leader in leadership assessment  over 1 23 000 young corporate managers have participated in the programme over the last five editions. of them  only 185 men and women have earned themselves the prestigious title of et young leader.“etyl is a fascinating platform for aspiring leaders giving them recognition and mentorship to think beyond the obvious ” said vineet nayar  former ceo  hcl technologies and founder of sampark foundation.he has been among the industry leaders who help evaluate candidates who enrol for this programme. he believes india lacks platforms where young leaders get a chance to step out of the comfort zone and compete with the best. “i am excited to be part of this journey once again to learn what our young leaders are thinking and doing today  as they are the real jewels of india " he added.young professionals are taken through a four-phase assessment conducted in partnership with shl. candidates have to clear two rounds that test them on personality  numeric  analytical and logical thinking.phase 1 consists of an online personalitybased evaluation of the candidates. in phase 2  shortlisted candidates are put through a series of tests: an analytical test  a verbal ability test and a personality assessment. this is followed by on-ground assessments where the leadership qualities of participants are evaluated. participants who qualify go ahead to the final phase.the programme culminates with one-onone interviews with a jury comprising some of the most well-known ceos in the country. the final et young leaders list will be handpicked by an et panel of top-notch ceos.candidates can apply for the program through the website www.etyoungleaders. com before august 13  2018.</div></div>