<div><div><h2>Binny Bansal s departure puts disclosure policies in focus</h2></div><div>binny bansal s inglorious exit from is likely to make indian companies sit up and take stock of policies on disclosure including on the personal matters of promoters and senior executives and particularly during any due diligence say experts. bansal reportedly was in a relationship in 2016 with a former employee who had left the company four years earlier. two months after in may decided to acquire a 77% stake in flipkart she complained to the us retailer of sexual harassment by bansal who has denied it. walmart said an internal investigation did not find bansal guilty of the allegation. but it was bansal s omission of this personal matter during the acquisition that sparked the chain of events leading up to his exit as flipkart s group ceo. walmart said and bansal conceded that there had been a  lapse in judgement  and lack of transparency in bansal s handling of the situation. human resource experts and corporate lawyers familiar with due diligence processes in say the circumstances of bansal s exit would trigger tougher scrutiny of promoters and senior executives for anything that might hurt acompany s reputation. they also said that a sign of any mature ecosystem is when such sensitive details are necessarily disclosed as part of due diligence.  the culture in the us treats non-disclosure very seriously especially around matters that can affect the reputation of a company and hence its financials  said tn hari hr head at india s largest online grocery big-basket.  most hr policies manon date any relationship at the workplace to be disclosed but a relationship outside the workplace can be a personal matter. however it is poor judegment if a top executive does not disclose it.  legal experts said the compulsion of disclosure of personal issues is usually contract-driven and often in india such matters are not included. a source familiar with the walmart-flipkart deal said disclosure of personal relationships was not a part of terms of the contract.  in china due diligence during m&as includes a thorough cultural and personal diligence especially on the founders. this might now start to happen in india  said a corporate lawyer on condition of anonymity. corporate lawyer anupam sanghi said that most contracts in india too have clauses stating that even if such an incident with liability comes to light after a deal is done action can be taken based on the potential repercussions. while experts believe the line is blurry on disclosure of relationships outside the workplace they encourage a judgement call especially for companies that are personality-driven.  leaders especially those who become the face of a company have to hold themselves accountable to the highest standards regardless of what hr policies may state  said rituparna chakraborty cofounder of staffing firm teamlease.  it is impending on a leader to come clear about such things since these can affect not just an individual s reputation but also that of the company.  apart from matters of personal relationships industry members say binny bansal s exit has served as a wake-up call for the startup community in india to ensure transparency among founders senior executives and investors.  startups need to have a very clear intent on compliance often seen as a necessary evil on all fronts from day zero  said sanjay swamy managing partner prime venture partners.  they need to bake this into all processes.</div></div>