<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>indra nooyi last visited india in her official capacity in march-april last year  during which she worked the mumbai market extensively. having been born and raised in the country  nooyi felt an especial affinity for the indian market  said those who worked closely with her. “transforming the beverages and snacks portfolio in line with consumer trends  much ahead of any competition  has been her biggest legacy ” said former pepsico india chairman d shivakumar  who was handpicked by nooyi. “her connect with employees and the ecosystem were the other key differentiators she brought to the india business.”while there had been speculation about her leaving once she completed a decade as chief executive of the soda and chip maker two years back  the sudden announcement of her departure still came as a surprise for even some key leadership executives in india.“she never hinted she was exiting — there was no indication whatsoever. this is a complete surprise ” said one of them. the maker of pepsi cola  tropicana juice and lay’s chips has named ramon laguarta  a company veteran of over two decades  as successor to nooyi. “it was an obvious choice  since he was promoted as president last year. but no one expected it so soon ” another company insider said.the indian institute of management  calcutta  and yale alumna  the first female chief executive in the company’s history  said in an email to et hours after the new york-based firm announced her exit: “i’m specially proud of the work we’ve done in india to transform our portfolio to include more nutritious products  working with and supporting thousands of indian farmers  and providing an inclusive workplace in which our associates in india can bring their whole selves to work everyday. that will not change.”nooyi said india was a key market that had transformed its portfolio from predominantly sugary drinks and salty snacks to include low-sugar beverages and items with more fibre content. nooyi’s most significant legacy  leading the company’s transformation mainly in snacks  has been visible across markets.three former top executives et spoke to said that in the first sixseven years after she assumed the top job  pepsico posed a stiff challenge to coca-cola in india--on market execution  innovation and marketing. however  they said pepsico’s focus on snacks  which continues to outperform soft drinks  led to it losing ground in that area  while coca-cola aggressively focussed on it.</div></div>