<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>amarendra d is collecting and scanning inventory at the flipkart warehouse in hoskote. after a series of job refusals  he has finally gained a career foothold at india’s largest ecommerce company. finding a job was challenging not due to lack of qualification but because this history graduate is hearing- and speechimpaired.what made employment even more crucial was that the 27-year-old’s father  a farmer from a water-scarce village in chittoor  andhra pradesh  has debts to clear. amarendra’s career path has one important objective — to learn as much as he can and not be limited to a specific task at the warehouse. his goal  he says in sign language  is to become a team leader in the next two years and buy a flat in the city so that his parents can finally retire from farming.amarendra is among the 153 full-time differently-abled persons currently employed across five metros with flipkart. the city-headquartered ecommerce platform first employed 25 persons with disabilities (pwd) as delivery executives in 2016. now  the recruitment has expanded to include various roles along the supply chain — from the warehouse to smaller fulfilment centres (delivery hubs). employees are primarily speech and hearing impaired while some suffering from physical disability.the organisation is collaborating with sign language interpreters and local nonprofits working in this space. the latter step in to engage with family and caregivers  who are often too protective to let pwds work in mainstream jobs.while delivery executives have sosenabled smartphones  along with special badges and flash cards  to communicate with customers  differently-abled individuals on the warehouse floor are identified with black and grey-striped jackets that they wear as a security measure.“recruitments are underway and we hope to work with 300 differently-abled people across various roles by the end of the year ” said aashima jain  project lead of the ekartians with different abilities (edab) initiative. ekart is flipkart’s logistics arm.the hiring underway at india’s largest ecommerce platform is another step towards an inclusive workforce that corporates have been trying to create. the list of startups  quick-service restaurants and companies in bengaluru that hire pwds is a long one — amazon  accenture  cisco  state bank of india  big basket  redbus  cafe coffee day  kentucky fried chicken  capgemini  thoughtworks  lemon tree  britannia and itc. with conscious capitalism and technology enablers  pwds are becoming an integral part of a company.being the changewith a 1.3-billion population and 450 million-plus workforce  the 2011 census states that india has 2.68-crore people with some form of disability. estimates by the world bank and the world health organisation (who)  however  put the figure upwards of 7 crore. given the country’s jobless economic growth and the fact that almost one million people are added to the country’s workforce every month  pwds are often denied employment opportunities. at a fundamental level  they often do not have access to basic educational infrastructure and healthcare.the rights of persons with disabilities act  2016  and the rights of persons with disabilities rules  2017  have contributed to companies not only ensuring that at least 3% of their workforce is differentlyabled but also providing assistive technology  tailor-made training and support systems to ensure that pwds learn and grow in their jobs.sap labs  for instance  employs pwds in roles including human resources  software development  quality control and technical writing. “by year-end  we will formally roll out an end-to-end policy for pwds  this will address all concerns including hiring  educating managers  appointment of liaison officers and support services for communication  disability councils and grievance committees ” said kiran venkataramanappa  lead for inclusion  sap labs india. “in the past five years  we have seen a 95% retention rate among differently-abled employees.” the software company also has an autism at work initiative.companies across sectors have said that employing pwds also makes sound business sense given the low attrition rates  high productivity  loyalty and low absenteeism. ibm  for instance  has created a business resource group called enablers india  a collective to increase sensitisation  networking  mentoring and learning opportunities. “we ensure that essential job functions are clearly laid out for every position along with the fact that reasonable accommodation is available so that pwds can understand the nature and requirements of the job and apply for it as per their skills  interests and abilities ” said chaitanya n sreenivas  vice president & hr head  ibm india / south asia.there is  however  need for consistent sensitisation. deepa narasimhan  head of diversity and inclusion at dell-emc india  said that one of their biggest responsibilities is to increase awareness and create more opportunities for pwds to rise up the corporate ladder. narasimhan is tetraplegic  paralysed neck down and leads by example to ensure that inclusion is not restricted to a recruitment initiative and is internalised by the company top-down.“our biggest learning has been to adopt a case-by-case approach to understand what each employee needs to be independent and empowered and provide assistive technology or infrastructure accordingly ” she said. this has helped the organisation to employ over 100 differently-abled individuals  including ones with multiple disabilities like deaf-blindness and paralysis  apart from autism and cerebral palsy.asha sreedhar  quality associate at sap labs india who is autistic  said that in the past three years  she has observed the level of sensitisation go up significantly. today  her colleagues are communicating more easily  being more understanding and ensuring that she participates in all official and cultural events organised.long way to gomuthu raj  project executive  youth4jobs  a company that skills and helps pwds find employment  said that despite legislation and awareness  only about 24% of pwds get access to livelihood opportunities. furthermore  what stunts their growth prospects in organisations is also the lack of open-source alternatives for expensive assistive technology. “the refreshable braille display used by deaf-blind or paralytic individuals  for instance  costs rs 2 lakh and can be serviced only in the us or uk. not all companies can afford these solutions  which is why individuals with severe or multiple disabilities often fall back in the employment race.”according to shiva hiremath  deputy director  the association of people with disability (apd)  the formal employment sector is growing at 1.5% annually  but the graph is moving up steadily. pwds  he said  are also unable to capitalise on job opportunities because of a skill gap. he pointed out that there are over 1000 skill development centres in karnataka  each training individuals for at least five job roles. “very few of them include and train pwds. the government has to make inclusion mandatory there.”at a fundamental level  hiremath said that the health and education departments must pull up their socks to increase sensitisation among themselves about available welfare schemes for pwds and also make sure people are aware of it and utilise it. “the health department must provide therapy and counselling support to pwds and caregivers right from when a child with disability is born. school teachers must be trained. this will reduce the lacuna in policy implementation ” hiremath said.dell-emc india’s deepa narasimhan pointed out that for effective inclusion in job sectors  the government must be as serious about strengthening its policy for the disabled as it is with the right to education. “availability of public infrastructure will go a long way in increasing employee productivity and encouraging more people to apply for jobs ” she said.vs basavaraju  state commissioners for persons with disabilities in karnataka  admitted that government school teachers and health centres are illequipped to handle pwds. “many-atimes  teachers cannot even identify disabilities. to correct this  i am travelling to every district  holding meetings with all the concerned officials  local nonprofits and caregivers over two-three days  increasing sensitivity and demanding accountability ” he said. “even companies employing pwds have to maintain and provide regular reports about their employees. if pwds are discontinued from service or rejected  they have to provide detailed reasons why.”at the end of the day  engaging pwds is not about numbers  said avesh kumar jha  senior vp  organisational development and performance management  hinduja global solutions  which employs 275 pwds. “not only does it make sound business sense in terms of loyalty and productivity  engaging with pwds helps other employees learn creativity  patience and tolerance.”for narasimhan  it is about keeping the happiness quotient high at all times. “the differently-abled must know that they just need to reach out. there are many opportunities out there.”</div></div>