<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: the $13-billion jsw group  which is in an acquisitive mode  is refurbishing its workplace culture to attract talent. the group has taken a significant salary reset to increase compensation by 25-30% in junior- and middle-management levels. a kind of reset has also been done on promotions to enable a job-banding exercise. given that the group is currently stretched on the talent front  there is a plan to hire 500-600 engineering trainees for its manufacturing units and newly acquired assets.over the last decade  the conglomerate has forayed into new sectors and has made a host of acquisitions — ispat industries  shiva cement — and some outside india like acero holdings and aferpi.jsw group president (hr) gautam chainani said  "there was a time when we were losing people and a salary correction was necessary." the group has also adopted a segmented strategy to retain high performers who were becoming an attrition risk. "we have already identified 200-250 people in our talent pool pipeline whose growth we track and monitor " said chainani. while the group follows an annual cycle of appraisal  some companies are said to be keen on moving to bi-annual reviews.sajjan jindal’s son parth jindal — who is the md of jsw cement and founder director of jsw sports — is taking a keen interest in peoplerelated matters of the 8 000-manager strong group.for a large group that is enhancing its global play  a diversified workforce becomes an imperative. sergio rocha of brazil was recently appointed by jsw energy as coo of its electric vehicle business. "six years ago  if someone told me that we would have a brazilian here heading our electric vehicle business and he would fit into our culture  i would tell him there’s no chance " said jindal.hr consulting firm ddi india’s md amogh deshmukh said  "since the it boom of the late nineties  the manufacturing sector faced a massive brain drain. this weakened the mid-level talent and companies were forced to induct talent through lateral hires."the jsw group is said to have done away with the old legacy of offering post-retirement extensions. jindal said  "we are facing real pressure as our people requirement is growing. everyone is stretched  so we have decided to go for lateral hiring."the culture change is also directed at attracting woman talent. jsw has begun taking baby steps to improve its gender diversity with a target to double it to 10% in the next few years. "we realised that our women team members wanted to take on tougher assignments and we are sensitising managers to bring about this change " said chainani.</div></div>