<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>serial entrepreneur c sivasankaran has said he will take ousted tata sons chairman cyrus mistry to court for allegedly mismanaging and scuttling the planned sale of tata teleservices to vodafone india  causing a rs 3 000 crore loss for the shareholder-businessman.sivasankaran  who claims he still owns about 5 per cent in ttsl  told et he will also write to tata sons  the holding company and promoter of the telco  to sue mistry because the scuppered deal would have cost the group rs 26 000 crore.“if the vodafone deal had happened  i would have received rs 14 per share  but because of mistry’s mismanagement  i have lost rs 3 000 crore ” sivasankaran said. “i will also write to tata sons  urging them to file a case against their former chairman because according to the deal then discussed  the group would have received rs 26 000 crore. mistry’s mismanagement has cost the ttsl’s shareholders and they have lost all equity.”he said a legal notice would be sent to mistry this week and the case would be fought in india and the seychelles  where he has citizenship. seychelles-based sivasankaran had bought about 8 per cent in the company in 2006.according to documents submitted in the national company law tribunal  the board was aware of mistry pursuing a merger with vodafone. the former tata sons chairman also stated that the operating profit of the telecom business grew more than four-fold to over rs 2 000 crore during his tenure. he had added that a merger with ttsl was challenging because of the high number of contingent liabilities that existed in the business  litigation over the dualtechnology 2g issue and lack of clarity in m&a; regulations.mistry did not immediately respond to et’s emailed queries on the matter.this is not sivasankaran’s first rift with mistry. he had said earlier that he would “take action” against mistry for alleging that sivasankaran got ttsl shares at a discount and that favours were extended to him at the behest of ratan tata  who was chairman of tata sons from 1991to 2012.mistry’s counsel  during the battle with tata sons in the nclt after his removal  had alleged that former aircel promoter sivasankaran received largesse worth more than rs 1 000 crore  including management contracts for procurement services at discounted rates that were against industry standards. the businessman had then denied the charges.ttsl is now being acquired in a cash-free  debt-free deal by bharti airtel. the debt-laden and lossmaking telecom firm had been an achilles’ heel at one of india’s oldest business groups.mistry  in one of his letters to the board right after he was ousted  had said ttsl’s business was “continuously haemorrhaging.” talk of the deal between ttsl and vodafone has been reported since 2014. according to the reports  ttsl would have been bundled with dth operator tata sky and tata communications  the enterprise and digital infrastructure arm  in exchange for a substantial  but not majority  stake in vodafone india.bharti airtel’s acquisition of ttsl is awaiting regulatory approvals while the enterprise business is being sold to tata communications.sivasankaran has other legal troubles in india. he faces charges of fraud and nonpayment of loans worth rs 600 crore sanctioned by idbi bank  which he has previously denied.</div></div>