<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by devdutt pattanaikwill india inc hire tim cook  ceo of apple  a company today valued at trillion-dollars  or will the human resource department turn down his application on learning he is openly gay  this is a question that india inc needs to ask itself in the post-377 era.with supreme court of india decimalizing homosexuality in no uncertain terms on 6th september 2018  will companies include ‘sexuality’ as part of their diversity policy  few show signs of implementing the nalsa judgment of the supreme court that recognized transgender as third gender.so theoretically a talent will be turned away because of his/her sexuality  or his/her gender. if we cannot embrace difference  how do we expect to be innovative and creative in the global ecosystem  how can india ever hope to equal apple people build a company and people come in all shades: all kinds of gender  sexualities  religions  languages  race  ethnicity and castes. it is human tendency to form cliques and prefer homogeneity. such an ecosystem will not hire the tim cooks of the world who are different. and so such an ecosystem will not hire one of the corporate world’s most successful chief operating and chief executive officer.there is a story in hindu puranas of a sage asking god for nectar. god comes to him in the form of a beggar and offers him nectar in a broken  dirty  smelly pot. the sage refuses to drink nectar  refusing to believe that god would appear as a beggar or that nectar would be served in such a pot. his assumptions about appearances cost him nectar. likewise  our assumptions about packaging costs us talent.in hindu philosophy  one must distinguish between deha (body) and dehi (resident of the body). soul is dehi. mind is dehi. talent is also dehi  resident of a body. and the body may be straight or gay or bisexual or transgender. we must ask ourselves: do we seek nectar or the pot in hindu mythology  the goddess of wealth lakshmi is drawn to talent. she does not care if ‘indra’ is gay or straight  male or female  hindu or muslim  white or black  marathi or malayali....an ancient lesson on focussing on only what matters. india inc loves lakshmi. but will it hire leaders who will attract her  or be too focussed on things that do not really matter.many reject talent on the ground that they are gay  or lesbian  or bisexual. many people claim diversity and equality are their values. but these are just poster material.many claim they value merit. but they assume all meritorious candidates are heterosexual. these assumptions cost us talent.or we have talent in our organisations who are terrified of sharing the truth of their lives with team leaders and bosses for fear of being humiliated  ridiculed  for fear of being denied career growth  fear of being sidelined  fear of being mocked in subtle ways  fear of the glass ceiling. how does this make business sense one wonders recently a business family created a trust with the clause that should the children (who are still minors) ‘choose’ to be gay  they will be denied their inheritance including a place in the family business. imagine if that child was tim cook  he would be denied the opportunity to turn the family business into a trillion dollar business.these are questions we need to ponder when we read about the supreme court verdict decriminalising homosexuality. the government has stepped out of the bedroom. india inc needs to follow.(devdutt pattanaik is the author of business sutra. views expressed above are the author's own.)</div></div>