<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>rc bhargava  non-executive chairman  maruti suzuki  talks about rajan nanda’s qualities  the life he led and how he will miss him in a short conversation with ketan thakkar.rajan nanda  chairman  escorts group passed away on sunday night.the passing away of rajan nanda is a great personal loss to me. his demise has not only created a void personally but is also a loss to the business fraternity or society as such.people build businesses and they go through ups and downs — but encountering a person like rajan is very rare. having said that the tractor business he built along with his son  today is one of the leading businesses in the country indeed. having known him for more than three to four decades  not often you come across a very good human being  who just believes in doing things the right way.i didn’t know him much as a business person  but i am sure he was not one of those who would bend rules or win business at any cost. he would always adopt the right way of doing business as he did in his life.i knew his father too  i think one of the qualities  which rajan picked up from his father was how to be a perfect human being and a real gentleman. he had great value systems  which he imbibed from him father and i am sure it has trickled down to his son too.he was considerate of others  courteous  soft spoken  always kept other person’s needs ahead of his own.he was more of a family  than a friend. i recall travelling to mumbai for his son nikhil’s wedding  the way he made all of us feel  has left a fond memory for us. we did meet every once in a while. we discuss everything under the sun about life  family  etc. but it was never business. he would always make sure to send his wishes on birthdays and anniversaries.his wife also had underwent serious health issues  he did everything possible to look after her and be by her side all through. he never complained about his own health too.just a month back  before undergoing his surgery  he had invited me to meet him  but since i was travelling  i could not meet him and i regret it now. it was my big loss.</div></div>