<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>new delhi: elon musk has plenty of admirers in india inc. here’s one more thing india’s biggest industrialists can take note of – using your company’s resources to help those caught in a terrible disaster. tesla’s billionaire founder has sent engineers  deep boring gear and heavy-duty battery packs to add to the rescue effort of the trapped thai football team and their coach  a story that made headlines around the world.other blue chip global companies have stepped in similarly. to take just two prominent examples: in october 2017  when hurricane maria devastated puerto rico  google’s project loon got over 100 000 stranded people to access internet and speed up rescue efforts.when the 2003 tsunami ravaged sri lanka and indian coastline  a coca-cola bottling plant in lanka stopped bottling coke and filled bottles with water and used its logistics network to help people get drinking water. india inc has been somewhat lacking in similar displays of a big heart. even ignoring infamous examples like delhi-chandigarh airfares jumping to rs 99 000 during the 2016 jat agitation  india’s corporate majors haven’t stepped forward and extended smartly thought out assistance in a crisis. during the assam floods last month  luggage limits were waived for flights from guwahati  a typical example of small thinking.jessie paul  ceo  paul writer  a bengaluru based marketing advisory  said  “there’s an emotional pull of a crisis. but response often depends on whether csr funds are exhausted or the marketing team thinks it’s worth it. say  there’s a disaster in odisha. most companies won’t get involved because it’s a low buzz place. some emergencies and causes attract more attention than others. often response is linked to media mileage.”a senior mnc executive  who did not wish to be named  said  “in india there’s no particular model that companies follow. it america  corporates/individual entrepreneurs naturally come forward. in scandinavia  the state is expected to take care of everything. india falls between two stools. overall there’s little motivation for india inc to respond to a public emergency in real time.”heavyweights in indian companies say most ceos  promoters see csr expenditure as the limit of their responsibility to society. there’s reluctance to spend beyond and since csr spend is usually already allocated  there’s often no money even if there’s will to respond to disasters. some startups have shown evidence of willingness to help  albeit in small ways. during 2015 chennai floods  ola offered inflatable boats. and 2017 chennai floods saw bigbasket offering free food supplies  and portea medical supplying free medicines.“companies should not try and make a marketing statement ” said harish bijoor  founder  harish bijoor consults  a brand and business strategy firm. “responding to an emergency helps brands get soft cues. you can’t buy that for money.”nidhi pundhir  director csr  hcl foundation said  “a formal csr program can take at least three months. for emergencies we usually respond in 48 hours. the cues to help could from our employees or ngos. like we set up a call centre during chennai floods to help connect missing children with their families.”k ganesh  partner  growthstory  a venture builder platform  believes startups are quicker to respond as decision making is quick. “in the us it’s unlikely that a gm  ford or walmart could have responded as fast to the thai football team crisis as elon musk did. it’s easier for startups to take these decisions  as large companies need to go through a process to respond ” said ganesh.cvl srinivas  country manager  wpp  global ad and marketing major  says there’s long term benefit for companies with big hearts. “consumers connect strongly with brands creating a positive impact on society. we will see a lot more brands responding to emergencies to win consumer trust.”but companies must not think branding strategies when they help  as this story shared by a senior corporate executive shows. a company decided to send drinking water by trucks to gujarat during the 2001 earthquake. the team leader spent a lot of time on where the company’s logo will be displayed  and decided it will be on top of trucks because news tv cameras won’t miss that spot.the delay  while this strategizing was going on  is exactly what companies shouldn’t do when responding to crises.</div></div>