<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by sonu bhasinthe era of liberalisation in india changed the way family business owners ran their businesses. with licence raj crumbling  the promoters had to quickly find their feet as they saw the world businesses come rushing into the country.global businesses brought their products  their services and also the practices of corporate governance. it was this focus on corporate governance that caused the greatest discomfort to the promoters. the reasons were not difficult to understand.a new product  service or manufacturing technique — all this could be addressed by getting in new expertise. however  corporate governance was an area held closely by the promoter. if we focus on just one area within corporate governance – transparency – it is easy to understand why indian promoters were tardy in adopting this global practice.the meaning of the word transparency is clear  no puns intended. it means nothing to hide. for a promoter it means that processes and transactions within his company have to be available for ‘outsiders’ to see. for a promoter  an ‘outsider’ is anyone who is not part of his close group.further  all legal requirements are to be followed and also certified so. disclosures  as mandated by the various bodies  need to be made and within time.imagine what a shift this would have been for promoters. they were used to running their family businesses as personal fiefdoms  with their own set of rules. only a very few close confidantes were party to the decisions and workings of the business. the board of directors  if any  was a collection of friends and family.auditors were people who ‘understood the requirements’ of the business. the employees were part of the promoters’ extended family and he ruled over all of them like a benevolent patriarch.the promoters were actually in sync with the general working of the economy pre-1991. the black box of licence raj had ensured that no one knew how and why some businesses flourished while the others struggled. the individual businesses and their promoters did well  no doubt  but india suffered  as it was not the preferred destination of investment then.the process of opening up of the indian economy coincided with another phenomenon. it was in the eighties that many promoters started sending their children overseas for higher education. in the latenineties  the promoters were quick to call back their genext. they hoped that the foreign investors would find the next generation  with their ‘foreign education and exposure’ easier to deal with. the returning generation was quick to spot two very significant facts — one  that india had the potential to be the toast of investing nations and two  that india would lose its attraction very quickly if the management style did not change.it is significant that the late nineties saw some family businesses take an active lead in their attitude towards their own businesses. the burman family in the north and the murugappan family in the south are two examples where the family decided to move out of active management of the business. external ceos were brought in and the process of professionalisation started.some other families like the munjals and danis continued being part of the management but brought in senior professionals. green shoots of corporate governance in family businesses thus started sprouting.transparency – a key pillar of corporate governance – became a necessity both within and outside. the pressure was brought from within by the changing nature of employees  who wanted more of structure and less of ad-hocism. promoters who persisted with the ‘maibaap’ attitude saw their business flounder as talented professionals moved on.the mafatlas  srirams and ruias were marquee names at the start of 1990 but lost out in the new era.the push for transparency came from outside the business as well. the capital markets in india had opened up post 1991 and private mutual funds were allowed into the country. these funds became institutional investors and the promoters had to get accustomed to answering questions during analyst meets/investor calls.large investors were helped by one of the key changes brought in by sebi — the introduction of qualified institutional buyers (qib). today. 50% of the total new offering is reserved for these qibs.institutional investors  with their expertise  ask tough questions during their calls with the businesses. thus  the promoters have had to bring about a change in their own attitude and have to share much more information with ‘outsiders’ than they would have liked to in the ‘good old days!’through all this churn in the promoter business life  one comfort remained – that the board of directors continued to be from a set of the personal network! the regulator  too  left alone the board and its matters as it had other matters to focus on.the satyam fraud of 2009  however  shook up everyone  including the regulators. this was a company  family-owned  no doubt  but one with international operations  that had a venerable set of directors. the high-profile board had a harvard professor known for his expertise in corporate governance and also had the dean of one of the top management institutes of india.the question that everyone asked at that time was  “what was the board doing ” and then  “what was the regulator doing ”the satyam matter  as it is called  started the process of breaking down the last remaining comfort zone of the family business owner. the workings of the board came into focus and  to the horror of many promoters  tough guidelines were laid down on the form  format and composition of the board.it was the genext that realised that the patriarchs needed to bring about a change in their own attitudes if they wanted to survive and then prosper.the last 25-odd years have not been easy for an indian promoter. he has seen a complete change in the way his business used to be run. but he also realises that there is no going back and the world — and india as an integral part of the new world — is changing each day. transparency is not requested  but demanded  by all.corporate governance will only increase and more decisions of the business would come into question as institutional investors start asking questions at the periodic meetings. the silver lining for promoters is that they have many shining examples of peers and their businesses prospering in the new environment.the mahindra group  the aditya birla group and the max group are examples that prove that the generational shift in corporate governance does work.(apart from running an advisory firm  sonu bhasin is author of the inheritors – stories of entrepreneurship and success)</div></div>