<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>how would you react when the rogue driver of a cab you hired dumps you midway  a young iit grad used that experience to launch one of the world's biggest ride-hailing companies. ola founder and ceo bhavish aggarwal once rented a car for a weekend trip with friends to bandipur from bengaluru. the driver stopped the car in mysore and wanted to be paid more. aggarwal and his friends had to cover the rest of the distance by bus.founded in 2011 by bhavish aggarwal and ankit bhati  ola is now headed to the uk after expanding to australia a few months ago. according to market intelligence firm kalagato  ola increased its market share in india from 53% in july 2017 to 56.2% in december while its rival uber’s share slipped from 42% to 39.6%. ola saw its losses widening to rs 4 897.8 crore during 2016-17 but its total income grew 70 per cent. in july this year  ola crossed a major milestone by starting to make money on each cab ride. that's a significant achievement because at the peak of the ride-hailing battle in 2015 and 2016  the companies were losing rs 100-200 per ride.aggarwal  just 32 years old  was born in ludhiana to doctor parents; grew up in afghanistan and the uk; and reached iit-bombay to study computer science via kota  india's coaching hub for admission to top tech courses. after a stint at microsoft  aggarwal and ankit bhati — his iitian friend from jodhpur — started a tech platform olatrips.com to book cabs for outstation trips. when aggarwal explained his business model to his family  they asked if he was going to open a travel agency. they didn't understand why aggarwal would leave his cushy job at microsoft to become a travel agent. but they let him experiment.aggarwal and bhati started out in 2011 from a 1 bhk office in powai  mumbai. the office functioned as the workspace for their drivers during the day and for them at night. not many were buying their holiday trips. they were trying to do for cabs what makemytrip was doing for air travel and redbus for buses. but they had to shut that in four months. we realized the real pain point was city travel. the realisation deepened with aggarwal's experience with the rogue taxi driver in bengaluru. they shifted to car rentals and started operating from a 100-square-foot office in the basement of a half-empty shopping center called dreamz mall. "when asked where our office was  we’d say ‘dreamz mall’. people invariably asked  ‘dream small ’ bhati  now chief technology officer of ola  had told bloomberg. indeed  it was a small dream that the duo turned into a mega reality. in 2012  aggarwal and bhati began offering rides on demand to customers who called them on phone. there were times when aggarwal had to pitch in for drivers. he would borrow the car from his girlfriend  who is now his wife  to pick up a client. soon they launched their smartphone app. when they received a $5 million investment from tiger global management in the same year  they knew they had got it cracked. when aggarwal started meeting investors  he was a total greenhorn in the world of business. ola's first round of funding was an angel round and it was by far the toughest funding round they did. rehan yar khar  anupam mittal  snapdeal's kunal bahl  among others  were ola's initial investors. "back then taxis were not glamorous. we were doing just a few rides a day. i remember an angel investor asked me to send across our "org structure" and i had no clue. i went back and googled it; that's how naive i was. i had no clue what topline and bottomline were in the context of business. i was a techie and was into coding and the business side was completely alien to me " aggarwal told toi.but it wasn't easy for them to scale up ola operations. aggarwal has said it took him three years to convince even his wife to use ola. she would tell him "nahi mein kaali peeli use karloongi ” referring to the typical black-and-yellow mumbai taxis. when two years  ola got funding from silicon valley’s sequoia capital and japan’s softbank group corp.  ola had really arrived. today  ola has more than 6 000 employees and operates in 110 cities with a million drivers.when ola reached aggarwal's hometown ludhiana  his parents got to know in quite a dramatic fashion. their driver quit  bought his own car and registered with ola. aggarwal told bloomberg that his mother was upset first. then she downloaded her son’s app and learned to summon a car whenever she wanted one. “she feels liberated ” aggarwal said.sachin bansal  the founder of flipkart  who had a similar run to amazing success once wrote this on aggarwal in time magazine: “for those who meet bhavish aggarwal for the first time  his polite  soft-spoken demeanor is impossible to forget. get to know him a little more and you will soon notice his vision  passion and determination to stand against all odds. after all  he co-founded ola  one of the world’s largest ride-sharing companies  scaled it to more than 100 indian cities  empowered millions of driver-partners and commuters  and is a flag bearer for india’s consumer-tech ecosystem all by the age of 32.” </div></div>