<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: many multinational corporations (mncs) have approached insurance companies seeking a group health policy that will cover partners of those in same-sex relationships. the requests are aimed at their global diversity policy that aims to provide equal benefits to all employees.marsh insurance brokers md sanjay kedia said  “globally  there are policies that cover same-sex partners. it is possible to provide a similar benefit in india. there is no prohibition on providing such a cover as it is between the company and the insured.” he added that now with the section 377 of the indian penal code (ipc) being struck down  such covers can be provided here too. “there are many multinational companies that celebrate diversity and promote equal rights. most progressive organisations are providing this cover  but it has not happened in india because the underlying relationship was not considered legal ” said kedia. he added that this cover will come to india as many mncs have been discussing this  particularly in it firms in mumbai and bengaluru. according to an official with a state-owned insurance company  there had been several proposals from multinationals for including same-sex partners in the past. “insurers baulked at providing this cover because section 377 had criminalised gay relationships ” the official said. he added the de-criminalisation of same-sex relationship still leaves some challenges.jlt independent insurance brokers ceo sanjay radhakrishnan said  “these covers are provided globally in places where gay marriages are recognised. there are also countries where the benefits are extended to unmarried partners. however  in india  the definition of ‘family’ must be conformed to.” this means that for insurers  the de-criminalisation might not be enough and they would also need marriages to be recognised by law.new india assurance’s former general manager segar sampath kumar  who headed the company’s health business for several years  said  “there are complexities surrounding insurance in terms of relationships and identification of the beneficiary.” what this means is that there is a risk that an outsider requiring medical treatment might be brought in to avail of the group policy benefits. unlike individual policies  many group health covers do not exclude pre-existing conditions.according to the public sector official  insurers might be more open to providing this cover to multinationals since they document the relationship in advance and there is a high level of compliance in these organisations.for life insurance companies  this is not an issue as the policy holder has the freedom to choose the nominee. “the nominee role is to hold the property in trust in behalf of those who inherit the property. for the sake of inheritance  the policyholder can name any beneficiary in his will ” said an official with a life insurance company.</div></div>