<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>how do you shake your team out of inertia  when employees are familiar with a certain way of operation  they tend to stay that way. it’s hard to get people out of their comfort zone and make them look at things differently. if a leader wants to innovate  then the inertia among team members needs to be dispelled. et speaks to experts for their take.1. individual goal settingeach team comprises individuals with their own uniqueness  strengths and weaknesses. “as a team leader  one should allocate the work based on their individual strengths  which will motivate them to put in that extra effort while doing their job ” says rituparna chakraborty  president  indian staffing federation. this  she says  will also encourage them to go the extra mile to get the work done and increase the participation level of that individual leading to better productivity.2. build a strong alliancethe role of this team of internal and external resources is to help promote the vision of the future  eliminate obstacles  generate short-term successes and change habits in the company’s culture. the idea is to work with key influencers. “some people within an organisation have the ability to sway many others. getting them on board will provide the credibility  support  and influence a leader needs to move forward. in a smaller company  involve everyone ” says james agrawal  managing director  bti executive search/persolkelly.3. develop a planwith the team’s assistance  the leader needs to develop a plan with realistic goals and objectives  ones which are specific  measurable  relevant and time-bound  says agrawal. “develop a plan that includes quick successes but do not underestimate the time it would take; early achievements also help in roping in doubters to the programme. at the same time  it’s essential to celebrate success ” he says.4. rewards and recognitionhard work needs to be appreciated which will boost the executor’s confidence and encourage others to work the same way. being appreciated by a team leader in front of everyone gives a sense of importance and ownership. “special awards should be introduced for great ideation and taking ownership of things beyond their scope of work. this can be done at an individual  or team level  to appreciate the team effort. a team leader should increasingly welcome newer ideas among his/her team members ” says chakraborty.5. be the examplethe team leader should be the example-setter and should be confident of his decisions and commands. “they should inspire team members to learn and go the extra yard. a leader should set a futuristic vision for the growth of team members and should constantly update them about the larger company goals and act like a voice on behalf of the management ” says chakraborty.</div></div>