<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>my father ran it practically for 50 years in a culture where even discussion was seen as disrespect.”an autocracy  you guess  you wouldn’t be far from the truth. for that’s the word pranav sharma  scion of the baidyanath group  uses for india’s oldest ayurvedic pharmaceuticals company that his father  suresh kumar sharma  built.pranav  35  is at the proverbial crossroads. a decade ago  he had moved away from his family business when his father rejected his radically different views. “today ” rues pranav  “my father is 70 and keen that i take charge.”the irony is not lost on him. at odds with his father  pranav had started his own ventures in power and hospitality. “now i feel  had i invested those critical years in my family business and had my father been more open to change  i would have raised the value of that business significantly. i tell that to my dad too ” he says.inter-generational friction is nothing new  but while large and established business groups systematically work out their successions plans  many family-owned/managed medium- and small-sized businesses in india are in a phase of transition.the business environment itself is changing  and vuca — defined as the volatility  uncertainty  complexity and ambiguity component — is now officialese for murphy’s law. the older and younger generations are  at times  in a state of conflict  resisting each other’s approach to business strategies and working styles.pranav is emphatic when he speaks of his father. “the credit of building the business is his  but the discredit of not scaling it up is also his. he built the business brick by brick  but also destroyed value by not embracing change. the way the business has been run has been a bit like autocracy!”as a result of situations such as this  the millennial genext of business families is either opting out in favour of another career  or losing interest in the face of too many instructions from senior family members.education vs experience no doubt  the next generation is well-educated and taking over the reins in a changed environment  but it also lacks the invaluable experience. on the flip side  in most cases  when successors learn modern management techniques  get exposure to industry practices and plan to do something bigger for their family business  the seniors are not prepared to accept it.mita dixit of the sp jain institute of management and research is a family business adviser. “their circle of influence and horizon of opportunities are still the same. the incumbent generation is baffled by the new ideas of youngsters. many a time  they are discarded as fancy or impractical ” explains the head of research and consultancy at the institute’s centre for family managed business.amit  son of anand rathi and managing director of the eponymous financial services firm  says it is important for parents to acknowledge that their child may have a different style of business and people management and let them evolve.“my father is a more ‘details and process’ person  whereas i am more 'strategic and creative' in my approach. so we could approach a problem or decision very differently at times. we’ve worked our way through this over time by separately carving out times or days to discuss and this has helped in my case ” says amit.family business advisers ask senior family members to be more mentor and less father  boss or senior. the older generation is coming to terms.in london this summer  a mining mogul was given this parenting tip by a fellow billionaire who also has children the same age — “be a friend to him  have a drink together  talk to his friends  understand where he is coming from by giving him space.”bipin shah  chairman of the rs 1 500-crore pharmaceutical sk group  says senior family members usually do not object for the sake of it.but he admits that differences crop up initially due to different expectations; it takes at least three to five years for a proper understanding to develop.the sk group has five members of the third generation and seven of the fourth working together. training from the chairman himself and an acquaintance with the history and business growth of the group starts at the tender age of 15 years.“i do not get disheartened when ideas are not readily accepted. handling differences of opinion is an art to be developed by the senior generation and appreciated by the young generation. motivation should not be questioned or compromised ” says gaurav shah  one of the fourth generation promoters.at arm’s lengthpromoters of well-established conglomerates  though  have a different view. gopal srinivasan  chairman and managing director  tvs capital funds  says a father should never mentor his child. the biggest danger is that the child may not mature enough and run the risk of going off-track. he cites the instance of chettiar and marwari families  where the successor always does apprenticeship outside the family  returning only after gaining in both experience and grooming. srinivasan says a child should always make mistakes outside the ambit of the family business.harsh goenka  chairman  rpg group  has similar sentiments  saying the next generation in business should first report to professionals outside of family. “the fact is  many of them have bigger expectations and want to be catapulted straight to the boardroom. it is better to get them to work their way up the ladder  but balance it in a way by giving them freedom so they do not have a dependent mindset.”ajay piramal  for example  leaned on the wisdom of four men — deepak parekh  nitin nohria  robert booth  formerly of emaar  and subbu narayanswamy of mckinsey & co — to groom his son before he became the face of the family’s real estate business  piramal realty. “i am a great believer in the power of sangat (the company one keeps). the association with good people with high values and unblemished careers at an impressionable age will help develop anand’s character ” piramal senior had told et in an earlier interaction.made by the mentoraccording to spjimr estimates  by 2020  almost 37% of indian family businesses would go through a generational change in leadership. for business owners aspiring towards the next orbit of growth  planning and preparation  genext will be crucial  and mentoring may well be the need of the hour. shah of sk group says every individual must set his own path that fulfils his own set of goals based on his own aspirations. he has some advice for the older generation — remember  in the longer run  you would be happier to see your child at peace with him/herself.ways of taking decisions and handling disagreements change over the years. initially  one tends to go more or less with the parents’ view but eventually  space is opened up for independent decision-making. a point comes when all decision-making is independent and the role of the parent is more of mentoring  according to amit rathi. “for businesses that i built from scratch within the group  like wealth management  i had my space to take decisions pretty much independently right from inception ” he says.for the younger generation  sumeet kabra  director  rr global  a listed wires and cables manufacturer  says it is important to first gain the trust of the elders in the business by proving yourself. “it takes at least four years to gain their confidence. the younger generation takes decisions faster and that worries our seniors. our approach is simple — either you convince me or get convinced ” he says.“i held a lot of discussions to convince my elders to set up a plant in bangladesh. they were not convinced. but we did go there eventually  and now they are happy building businesses outside india ” he reminisces.kabra remembers the hard work too. “i worked at the silvassa plant for five years before being made a director in 2010 ” he points out.two sides  same cointhere were initial father-son disagreements in dynacon systems  specialising in it infrastructure solutions and a mid-sized public listed company  too. “the business was small  so dad had a controlled budget ” says dharmesh anjaria  45  who moved into the family business after a brief stint at birla mutual fund. “he believed ‘grow the business as much as you can control.’ i wanted to invest in people  attract larger customers and take on faster growth.” dharmesh says  initially  “i had to agree to everything dad said or (he felt that) i was defying him.”eventually  dharmesh got a free hand when his father was convinced he would succeed. he now looks after business development  technology and finance  but quips  “till today  dad micromanages and believes he should know every customer and supplier.”“i created the business and dharmesh developed it ” says the 73-year-old shirish anjaria proudly. the chairman and managing director oversees administration  hr and daily affairs. “even today  i am required in the company ” he adds mischievously.there is no denying that mentoring is a skill and an absolute must for any business leader  especially when it is family-owned and managed  says dixit of spjimr. the complexity and ambiguity of succession planning is a challenge as well as an opportunity.advisers put emphasis on open communication and absolute clarity. “from my interaction with about 120 mentors  i identified core expectations of mentors from their mentees  that is  future successors ” says dixit. “i helped parents get the role clarity first – as the parent  as business leader and as the mentor. each role has its own demands and characteristics. when the senior member masters the art of playing each role dexterously  he/she is able to communicate better and influence the millennial successors.”after all  even if it is an autocracy  the autocrat himself will change in the next generation.</div></div>