<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by sonu bhasinthe ongoing drama in the ranbaxy family is the topic of discussions in the corridors of power. malvinder and shivinder singh  the two brothers who once stood for solidarity  are now accusing each other in a public fight.rana kapoor and madhu kapur of yes bank have also gone to court  taking a family-related ownership matter into public domain. in yet another instance in the recent past  pankaj oswal  son of late abhey oswal  had taken his mother and brother-in-law to court over business ownership and control.successful family business owners are smart and intelligent people. this is a basic assumption  as otherwise  they would not have built such large businesses! most also guard their privacy fiercely. business details — especially financial — are shared on a need-to-know basis. they employ pr firms to help build the right public profile and try to keep their family away from the paparazzi.it is perplexing to find them washing their dirty linen in public when it comes to fighting over matters of business.family businesses are the best examples of flourishing paradoxes as there is usually a trade-off required between perspectives of the family and that of the business. however  the family is a dynamic body  as is the business. in the best of circumstances  these dynamic natures create tensions within the family. the ‘win-win’ solutions found by the family are  at best  a compromise for the foreseeable future. the solutions often drag unsuspecting and unrelated outsiders and non-family members in their wake.adolf and rudolf dassler  two german brothers  founded a shoe company in the 1920s. as their business grew  so did the tension between them. their conf lict ended up not only splitting their shoe company but also herzogenaurach  the town in which they lived. the townsfolk now had to be aligned to one brother and shoe company – adidas or puma.frequently  it is asked why families in business fight. harvard business review has a pithy answer – ‘because they can’!unlike non-family businesses  there are no barriers to keep personal fights from escalating and affecting business. most corporates use their hr function to act as a buffer between conflicting colleagues. unfortunately  the drama in the family  which affects the business  cannot be commented upon by the hr unit. the mind boggles at the mere thought of the head of hr at reliance group trying to resolve the public conflict between the brothers!it is interesting to note that the reasons for the dramatic conflict are a handful  though there may be millions of families in business around the world. researchers point out that the most common fights are over money; control between and within generations; sense of entitlement; mismatch between expectations and reality; heightened or suppressed emotions.the reasons for conflict may be the same but there is no template for each family to follow. each family is likely to resolve their conflict in their own manner  which depends on their family dynamics and individual personalities involved.the starting premise to address conflict in family businesses is to understand that conflict can best be managed but it cannot be prevented. according to research at the family firm institute  us  20% of family businesses report a weekly conflict  20% a monthly conflict and 42% report at least three to four conflicts in a year. the good news from the world of research  however  is that conflict can indeed be managed and that there are proven resolution mechanisms at the disposal of the families.effective communication is a simple tool that families can use to prevent mere disagreements blowing up into full-fledged conflicts. moreover  this tool is available for free! however  the part played by communication within relationships is often overlooked. when two brothers sit in a board meeting and the younger one makes a point – does the elder brother snap angrily and reply as a sibling or as a business associate  does the younger brother have the ‘freedom’ to contradict the elder in public or private  due to the family relationships being enmeshed in the family business  innocuous miscommunication can lead to more serious conflict.families need a safe and structured environment to facilitate communication between members. emotions simmering under the surface must be aired without relationships being impacted.family councils or family boards are structured bodies that encourage conversations without anyone being judgemental. councils provide a framework within which family members need to operate at meetings. further  councils facilitate formation of a family charter  which is a document that sets out the relationship between the business and family.the munjal family  owners of the hero group  have said at various public fora that it was their family council  along with the family charter  that enabled the amicable separation of the family business.a family retreat is one more way. by definition  a retreat is an act of withdrawal. a family retreat involves the family withdrawing into a place away from the day-today environment. the advantage is that unlike a family council  it can involve all family members – those in the family business  those not and even young adults. there is something about a break from the routine  away from normal surroundings  that gets people to open up and let their guard down. patriarchs can use the retreats to spot issues early enough. even corporates use these retreats  called offsites  to get senior leaders to bond better.family councils and retreats notwithstanding  sometimes communication does break down and the threat of a conflict looms large. mediation  as a process  is useful at times like these as it can direct ugly energy away from old grievances and channelise it into finding business solutions and preserving relationships.a mediator is a neutral outsider and  unlike an arbitrator  does not mandate a settlement. the role of a mediator is to help members communicate and develop mutually-acceptable solutions. the other advantage is that the process is internal  f lexible and  most importantly  confidential. since mediation is informal and mutual  the settlement has a higher probability of soothing personal relationships along with business matters.malvinder and shivinder have opted for a process of mediation. rana kapoor and madhu kapur seem to be heading towards a similar process. in both cases  sanity has prevailed and all parties are seeking to protect not only their organisation’s interest  but also their own.as it was said earlier  family business owners are smart and intelligent people.</div></div>