<div><div><h2>Lower earnings of India Inc hit CEO bottom line</h2></div><div>mumbai: tepid corporate earnings have hit the wallets of top india ceos. average pay increases of managing directors and chief executive officers dropped to 8% in fy18 from 10% the previous year amid a continuing slowdown in some sectors as companies grappled with cost increases and margin pressures. that compared with a 16% increase in fy16. the average pay of mds and ceos of companies listed on the nse rose to rs 2.69 crore in fy18 from rs 2.48 crore a year earlier according to prime database. a total of rs 4114 crore was paid to 1528 ceos and mds last year compared with rs 3596 crore for 1450 leaders in fy17. the amount includes the remuneration paid to executive directors   promoters and non-promoters. compensation consisted of basic pay perquisites variable pay and commissions while excluding stock options. the data is based on 1655 out of 1710 nse-listed companies for which annual reports were available as of november 1.  rising cost pressures and slowdown in certain sectors in the last two years are forcing companies to keep increase in fixed compensation for mds and ceos in single digits  said ck guruprasad consultant at executive search firm . companies are curbing increments which become fixed costs unlike bonuses for instance though even these aren t applicable in straitened circumstances.  organisations want to increasingly reward their leaders not through high increments  but through rewards based on actual outcomes linked to performance  he said. these rewards when warranted are increasingly likely to be in the form of employee stock options (esops) and restricted stock units (rsus).  many ceos and key leaders earn significant amounts through stocks typically in form of rsus  guruprasad said. about 50-60% of the salary of a ceo or md is variable and linked to performance as high-performing companies also need high-return ceos headhunters said.  the lowering of percentage profit growth of bse and nse-listed firms in fy18 could have taken a hit on variable payouts of top leadership leading to an overall lowering of increments  said r suresh founder of boutique search and consulting firm insist executive search.   while there are exceptions to the rule   ecommerce for instance   sectors such as retail consumer industrials and manufacturing have been under pressure in the past two years and top management compensation could have been hit by slower overall company performance said experts.  if the general economic performance is not very buoyant the overall increase in salary will come down as some sectors will pull down the average  said suresh tripathi vice-president of human resource management at .  corporate earnings and profits have not increased in a huge way in the last two years which reflects in the very average salary increase at the top  said prime database managing director pranav haldea. the average salary increase for all employee groups across industries in 2017 was 9.3% according to hr consultancy aon hewitt s annual salary increase survey that was published in february. this was the lowest increase in 20 years since the inception of the survey in 1996 except the aberration of the year of the financial crisis when it hit a low of 6.6%. the survey which looked at data across more than 1000 companies estimated a similar average salary hike of 9.4% for 2018 while key talent is expected to get as much as 15.4% as companies intensified their focus on performance.  the days of 15-16% increases are gone and i don t believe we are going to see increment in that range anytime in the near future   it is not sustainable  said anubhav gupta director consulting at .</div></div>