<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>colgate-palmolive asia pacific ltd.  a subsidiary of the global consumer behemoth  made its debut in the indian consumer brand space with an investment in men’s grooming firm bombay shaving company.the primary investment is pegged at about rs 18 crore ($2.6 million)  with the hong kong arm of the global consumer company leading the round and picking up a 14 per cent minority stake in bombay shaving company  according to documents filed with the registrar of companies and accessed from data research platform tofler. existing investor fireside ventures also participated  the documents showed.bombay shaving company confirmed the investment but declined to comment on the financial specifics.“building a consumer brand in india needs time  capital and long-term vision. after having proven product market fit with promising repeat rates and product response  we are now looking to scale the brand ” said shantanu deshpande  ceo at bombay shaving company. “colgate-palmolive will help us with product development  scaling our distribution and building the brand.”founded in 2016  bombay shaving company works on a subscription-based model and supplies men’s grooming products modelled on the us-based startup dollar shave club  which was acquired by unilever for about $1 billion in 2016.the company started with about six products in 2016 and has expanded to 32 products across shaving  bath and body  skin and beard care. its offline channel  with a presence in over 700 retail touch points in four cities  contributes about 20 per cent of the business. the company is looking to add another six cities in the coming year.the startup makes men’s grooming products including razors  blades  facial scrubs  shaving cream  post-shave balms  shaving brushes  towels and travel kits. the portfolio has expanded to include shower gels and disposable razors.this use-and-throw razor will compete with market leader gillette in the affordable segment  deshpande said.bombay shaving company claims to have clocked an annualised revenue of about rs 16 crore in the quarter ended june. the company is looking to close fy19 with over rs 20 crore in revenue as it strengthens distribution."the bombay shaving company team has been able to quickly ramp up its product portfolio and expansion of its online platform. we see bsc building a strong brand with emotional appeal and a compelling product narrative.” said kanwaljit singh  founder of fireside ventures and board member at bsc.apart from traditional fmcg companies emami  hindustan unilever  pond’s  garnier and gillette  digital entities beardo in which marico acquired 45 per cent and happily unmarried’s ustra where wipro consumer care is an investor  are among those competing with bombay shaving company.</div></div>