<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>mumbai: corporate india surely loves its silver-haired men who lead its boards.last month  cigarette-to-hospitality conglomerate itc extended the tenure of non-executive chairman yc deveshwar by two years to 2022. the 71-year-old is the longestserving chairman of a professionally managed company in india —he has been its chairman for 22 years. at software major wipro  a family-controlled company  73-year-old azim premji has been at the helm for nearly half a century as executive chairman.the chairmen at indian companies  many of them in non-executive roles  are serving longer than their counterparts elsewhere  at a time when the trend of having long-tenured chairpersons is on the wane globally.campaigners for boardroom diversity argue that long-staying non-executives are a factor preventing change. in the us  institutional investors have identified lengthy average tenure coupled with under-performance and high overlap between the tenure of the ceo and that of the non-executive directors to be concerning. the uk is working on a corporate governance code that proposes that chairmen step down after nine years on the board  including the time they spent in previous non-executive director roles.bloomberg data available for 337 of india’s top 500 listed companies (bse 500) show the average tenure of a chairman in india at 9.5 years and the average age at 64. at the top global companies on the s&p; 500 list  the chairman on average spends 7.6 years in the post and is a year younger at 63.long-serving chairman brings continuityindia’s large number of familyowned businesses are a reason for the chairman’s lengthier tenure here. the patriarchs often stay put as long as they physically can. on an average  the chairman stays in the post for 9.6 years at family-controlled firms in india  compared with 6.4 years for professionally managed businesses and 3.5 years at state-run firms.milind sarwate  an independent director on the boards of several companies  cited two “perfectly human” mentality that discourage the chairmen of family-owned and founder-run companies to quit: “a basic sense of insecurity — about ‘what i will do now after letting go of ’ — and an anxiety as to how my successor will run the business as well as i did.” but  that isn’t entirely bad either  according to him  because the long-serving chairman brings continuity in a corporate world where the ceos don’t last long.“in the current volatile world  where ceos typically face a high mortality rate  the luxury of a long-standing wise chairman can be a godsend ” sarwate added. incidentally  only 11of the bse 500 companies have a female chairperson and only three of them — kiran majumdar-shaw of biocon  ravneet kaur of itdc and alice vaidyan of gic of india — are in executive roles. excluding majumdar-shaw  the average tenure of woman chairpersons is two years.corporate governance standards prefer the chairperson to be an independent non-executive director —55% of the chairmen of bse 500 companies are nevertheless executive. also  under new rules mandated by sebi earlier this year  the top 500 listed companies have to ensure that the chairperson is a non-executive director from april 1  2020 - eventually splitting the post of chairman & md. “there is no one standard about it. we evaluate the chairmen on the work they do — irrespective of whether they are promoters  executive  non-executive  short term or long term ” said nilesh shah  md of kotak mahindra amc. “we prefer division between the governance and execution roles — so want a managing director who executes the business and a chairman who questions the md on the operations  investments  governance and risks. there is an increasing trend where promoters are having a ceo to run the show or an outside non-executive chairman to oversee the affairs of the company.” shriram subramanian of ingovern research services said it was important to make a distinction between the executive and non-executive chairpersons.</div></div>