<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>by stephen mihmhow long can the economy keep humming along  larry kudlow  president donald trump’s economic advisor  believes that the good times are here to stay for the foreseeable future. he declared last week that growth could well continue until 2024.if such a thing happened  the current expansion  which is already long in the tooth  would be the longest ever. certainly  anything is possible. after all  aside from the much watched movements of the yield curve  there are few clouds on the economic horizon: hiring continues apace; the stock market  while no longer charging forward  is hardly in correction territory; consumer confidence  though slightly lower  is still generally upbeat.but signs of vitality can also signal  however paradoxically  that the economic party may be coming to a close. one such measure of health is the level of merger and acquisition activity  which actually tends to peak just before the economy tips into a recession. given the record $2.5 trillion in merger activity in the first half of 2018  it’s worth wondering whether the expansion may well be past its prime.it has been well demonstrated that merger and acquisition activity follows a cyclical path. in one noteworthy synthesis published in 2007  two researchers traced five waves of mergers and acquisitions over the course the preceding century. the first began in the late 1890s and continued until 1903  while the second spanned the late 1910s until 1929. after the great depression and world war ii  a new burst of activity commenced around 1955 and peaked around 1970.the next two waves came and went more quickly  the authors noted: one began in the early 1980s  peaking around 1987; the next accompanied the tech bubble  and ended in 2001. the researchers published their article in 2008  just as yet another flurry of mergers and acquisitions came to an abrupt  ignominious end. after several years of dormancy  m&a; activity slowly recovered along with the larger economy. it is now at its highest rate ever.in general  the authors found that these waves of activity emerged from the rubble of some previous economic disaster and coincided with a period of significant credit expansion and a major stock market boom. these waves also tend to be more beneficial for shareholders at the outset of the cycle. but as the intensity of the cycle increases  the reasons for pursuing mergers become less rational and more herd-like.when these cycles end  they tend to end very badly. they don’t just conclude with a tidy  mild recession. the first merger wave ended in a “stock market crash [and] economic stagnation.” the second concluded with a brutal stock market crash followed by the great depression. the third was punctuated by another stock market crash plus an oil crisis and other unpleasantness. the fourth terminated with the crash of 1987  which was bad but wasn’t followed by a recession for another couple of years. number five was succeeded by the collapse of the tech bubble  a recession and the 9/11 attacks.as for the m&a; wave that hit its peak in 2007  the authors didn’t have the benefit of hindsight  but we now know that it ended with the worst economic crisis since the great depression.</div></div>