<div><div><h2>--</h2></div><div>there has always been a lot of hullabaloo around the topic of corporate growth and placements in general. the internet is filled with everything from articles giving you tips on climbing the corporate ladder to motivational videos on the best ways to become successful. but the confusion in this topic is ever so prevalent. there are various important and unique attributes and strengths that need to be built to excel in the corporate world. from having the knack of cracking any interview to building the soft skills required for people management  the corporate industry has some very high demands. we got in touch with the md  sda bocconi asia center  alessandro giuliani to expand on campus placements  corporate networking and other elements of a successful career.  alessandro giuliani after graduating from bocconi university in italy  started a career in luxury marketing in a few mncs & moved to senior marketing roles. since 2011  he acts as the managing director of sda bocconi asia center previously called misb bocconiplacements are extremely stressful for students  especially freshers  what is the one word of advice that you would give to students prepping for campus placements   campus placements always appear more stressful to students  mainly because of the lack of confidence. with a country like india  where the talent pool is much wider  it becomes increasingly more tensing. however  i believe there are two key factors that can make or break a placement opportunity – confidence & soft skills. i have witnessed people impressing the interviewers by merely being confident of their knowledge on the forte and bagging the jobs of a lifetime. while it may sound too clichéd  confidence is often the most important accessory of any interview  especially for on campus placements.  another crucial factor will be soft skills. although  this has been a recent area of focus and development in the education sector  soft skills have been one of the most important traits that the corporates hunt for. contrary to popular belief  soft skills does not simply mean having strong communication or interpersonal skills but also includes critical thinking  problem solving abilities  decisiveness  etc. soft skills are crucial for managerial roles and also essential in every team player.  my simple advice to students gearing up for campus placements would therefore be to practice confidence building exercises. building soft-skills is also an essential  not just for the students but for anyone who is looking to succeed in the corporate world.you say soft skills are essential to build a successful career. what is the best way to inculcate soft-skills   soft skills and behavioral coaching are usually taught at masters’ level in india. changing this trend and including these topics early on will help to identify people’s strengths and thereby accelerate their growth in the corporate world. i have seen the lack of soft skills hampering people’s development and advancement. there have been various cases where a person is extremely knowledgeable and knows his area of expertise; however  they lack the basic skills to communicate effectively. intelligent students have often lost the perfect job opportunities because of lack of soft skills.  i would therefore urge students to take initiative to build their soft skills. people in india have an added advantage as they are exposed to the most diverse society and are extremely adaptable by nature. while they have a natural affinity to problem solving (or as people call it ‘jugaad’)  there is a drastic gap in formal training which acts as a setback for many people who cannot put their abilities to practical use. what are the initiatives taken by sda bocconi asia center to enable soft-skill development amongst your students   at sda bocconi asia center  we have fine-tuned the post-graduate programs to increase the focus on subjects like marketing  strategy and hr  with the belief that this will help students to think critically. there have been various simple yet critical steps that we take at sda bocconi asia center to push our students to think logically. we mainly focus on two types of skills – personal and professional. while both of these skills have various elements of soft skills  this distinction helps the student to develop their emotional intelligence while continuing to build their managerial skills.  we use experimentally methods of teaching that are highly interactive and also offer special soft-skills training workshops to our students. in addition to this  we use more case studies  group projects and fun activities to inculcate the soft skills according to industry demands. we also have various international faculty as well as students that come for a semester exchange  and this facilitates stronger cross-cultural sensitivity in our students. these unique add-ons make our talent pool accustomed to working in a diverse environment. the extracurricular activities enhance the behavioral competencies in our students who host and participate in various business competitions.how can institutions help employers in talent retention   there are various cases of students taking up jobs based on the fancy designations  higher pay packages and fancy perks. however  most candidates do not actually understand what their actual job is about. there is a gap between the employers and the candidates that leads to increasing cases of renege. at sda bocconi asia center we have increased opportunities of corporate interactions  live projects and internships. therefore the candidates get a fair idea about how the industry or corporate actually works and have a clearer picture of what they are getting into. this is the simplest way to educate students and future employees on what lies behind the jazzy designations and alluring paychecks.sda bocconi asia center is a player in an industry that is undoubtedly over-populated. where do you see this institute in the coming years and how do you stand out from the crowd   the education sector in india is filled with opportunity and while there is no denying that the competition is stiff  sda bocconi asia centre’s key differentiator is the consistent focus on practical experience and the rich academic expertise. we believe in building a talent pool that is holistically developed and easily adapts to changes. the global exposure offered by sda bocconi asia center and our continuous focus on building future industrialists who have a knack of problem solving on a wide spectrum and a keen eye for details (in markets or business environments).  to sum it up  we believe that our clear vision and philosophy backed with reliable expertise will help sda bocconi asia center to stand out as a leader. the sda bocconi asia center is the hub for sda bocconi in india and asia at large. the school of management based in milan  italy  inaugurated its indian presence in 2012 through misb bocconi catering mostly to the local indian audience. as misb completes six years  sda bocconi establishes it as sda bocconi’s pan-asian hub  with a broader scope across india  the middle east  china and the rest of asia.  var a = "https://pubads.g.doubleclick.net/gampad/adx iu=/7176/economictimes/et_imp_tracker_1x1&sz;=1x1&d;_imp=1&d;_imp_hdr=1&c;="; var randomnm = math.random(); document.getelementbyid('trackfrm').src = a + randomnm.tostring();</div></div>