<div><div><h2>In short supply, more Independent Directors earn Rs 1 crore a year</h2></div><div>mumbai: the number of taking home over rs 1 crore annually is on the rise. experts attributed this to a shortage of experienced hands which is prompting to loosen its purse strings. this comes as the government looks to cap the of independent directors to ensure their impartiality. it is widely perceived that higher has a tendency to dilute the effectiveness of independent directors. the number of independent directors in the rs 1 crore-plus club increased to 86 in 2017-18 an almost four-fold increase from 23 in 2012-13 according to market tracking firm prime database. the compensation of these 86 directors ranged between rs 1 crore and rs 5 crore. there were 73 independent directors in this category in 2016-17.   there were 31 independent directors who earned more than rs 1 crore from one company alone in fy18. an independent director can sit on boards of not more than seven listed companies at a time as per market regulator sebi s guidelines. top 100 directors accounted for 28% of total independent directorship remuneration as per data. the average take-home remuneration of independent directors including sitting fees and commissions increased 7% to rs 8.3 lakh in fy18 from rs 7.76 lakh in fy17 according to prime database which compiled figures from 1655 of 1710 nse-listed companies. however some experts said independent directors in india still earn less than their western counterparts. in the us an independent director could get between $150000 and $1 million (rs 1 crore and rs 7 crore) in each company.  compensation of independent directors in india is still modest compared to their contribution duties increased risk that they undertake and the time required to discharge their duties which have increased significantly  said arun duggal chairman of credit rating company and an experienced independent director.  one needs to compensate adequately to get good people particularly when the pool is limited  said shriram subramanian managing director of proxy advisory firm ingovern. the companies act of 2013 increased the liabilities of independent directors. this comes with growth in the size nature and complexities of businesses in india with many companies expanding globally and new technology coming in.  pay-out to independent directors in india is not something outrageous and neither companies nor investors have any issue compensating suitably someone of calibre  subramanian said. the companies act 2013 empowered independent directors while increasing their accountability and transparency. according to the law independent directors can be paid up to rs 1 lakh as sitting fees per board or committee meeting. companies have the flexibility to pay more as commission. the total commission paid to all independent directors in a company can be up to 1% of its profit. the 10 highest-earning independent directors included former state bank of india chairman op bhatt former blackstone group chief punita sinha former director general of the council of scientific & industrial research ra mashelkar former sebi chief m damodaran and former mckinsey partner ireena vittal. (see graphics)  companies are realising the value of credible and experienced independent directors on board. such a pool is not very large and comes at aprice  said pranav haldea managing director prime database. there were 30 new entrants in the crorepati independent directors club of which seven were women. they were kiran m shaw anjali bansal rama bijapurkar vinita bali hema ravichandar ranjana kumar and pallavi shroff. among the 16 independent directors who dropped out of the croreplus club were keki mistry and kalpana morparia. the corporate affairs ministry recently invited comments on its proposal to limit the remuneration of independent directors at 25% of their total income. the proposed cap applies to the commission earned and does not count sitting fees. according to jn gupta managing director of stakeholders empowerment services a proxy advisory firm compensation cannot be linked to independence or risk.  but it has to be fair in keeping with the duties and the value that they bring. it has also to be relative to the compensation of the rest of the board  he said.</div></div>