<div><div><h2>The Twins will attract new riders into RE fold</h2></div><div>last week royal enfield\u2014the oldest motorcycle brand in continuous production\u2014launched two new motorcycles called the twins in india. both the continental gt 650 and interceptor int 650 the company says have an agile chassis (developed at royal enfield\u2019s uk technology centre with sports motorcycle frame builder harris performance) and a simple but state-of-the-art air-cooled 650cc engine producing a punchy yet user-friendly 47 horsepower. while the continental gt 650 is targeted at \u2018sporting riders\u2019 with its optional single seat sculpted fuel tank rearset footrests and race-style clip-on handlebars the interceptor int 650 has design elements such as teardrop tank with traditional knee recesses quilted dual seat and wide braced handlebars reminding you of the \u2018street scrambler style\u2019 that emerged in the 1960s in california usa. also these are called the twins not only because they are two of a kind but also because they are powered by twin-cylinder engines. \u201cin india the twins will play a strategic upgrade role within our range. our portfolio line-up is now robust. we expect both the interceptor int 650 and continental gt 650 to offer an opportunity for many of our customers to move up towards the top-end of the middle-weight segment\u201d says rudratej singh president royal enfield. in an interview with fe\u2019s indrani bose he adds that the twins will also appeal to a newer set of enthusiasts who have been waiting for a twin-cylinder motorcycle from the company. excerpts: marketing these motorcycles as the twins appears to be a smart strategy. how did you arrive at the moniker  there are more than 3.5 million owners of royal enfield motorcycles in india. they love the brand; but when it comes to upgrading to bigger capacity motorcycles 535cc upwards there is a gap in the indian motorcycling segment. with the twins we have tried to close that gap and fulfil the aspirations of such customers. we still have only 6% share of the market so the headroom to grow is huge. the twins will help us retain our loyalists and enthusiasts. in addition these motorcycles will appeal to a newer set of enthusiasts who have been waiting for a twin-cylinder motorcycle from us. will the twins be sold pan-india or will you stick to metro cities  which all global markets do you think will the twins find acceptance in  my sense is that mini-metros will give us 70-80% of the volume but the twins will be available all across the country because we have a 500cc portfolio which sells across all our stores so we will make sure that all our products are made available in all our stores by the end of next january. as far as global markets are concerned i see the twins finding acceptance across the world from the developed markets of europe the uk the us to even the emerging markets like southeast asia and latin america\u2014which are very promising markets for us. the caf\u00e9 racer segment has failed to take off in india. do you think companies such as royal enfield and triumph should do more maybe by way of experiential rides in educating the riders about this niche motorcycling segment  the origin of caf\u00e9 racing was not in india. we are building new memory structures. you cannot sell the caf\u00e9 racing culture the way it was built in the 1960s; you have to build the caf\u00e9 racing culture the look and feel of a caf\u00e9 racer from a very different narrative in india. towards that we believe the new continent gt 650\u2014which is my favourite\u2014will play a very important role. it is a very accessible everyday use motorcycle from an ergonomics point of view. over time i believe india will build its own narrative around the caf\u00e9 racing culture. do you plan to replace the caf\u00e9 racer continental gt with the new continental gt 650  we don\u2019t work with products; we work with brands. this is the re-launch of the brand continental gt. we don\u2019t only have an automotive mindset that we are selling platforms or moving metal. we are moving motivations and the motivation of caf\u00e9 racer now has a new form which is the continental gt 650 so yes it replaces the continental gt 535. why does royal enfield always stick to naked design for its motorcycles  old-school classic british motorcycling is the core of what we do\u2014the design sensibility or a semiotic structure we have always been very close to. yes with the himalayan there was a slight deviation where its design was simpler paired down naked not really that old but it is an adventure motorcycle. we are very consistent in whatever we do so our design philosophy is about self-expression and exploration\u2014when we offer buyers a naked motorcycle it is pretty much ready to use as it is but you can also do so much more with it. you can easily customise it modify it make it your own make it appeal to your personality \u2026 these are the things that enthusiasts do. so this means you will also offer a lot of accessories for customisation with the twins\u2026 we have got for the first time in india 40 genuine accessories pre-validated with a two-year warranty and these motorcycles come with a three-year warranty and roadside assistance service. this is a big change as far as marketing is concerned. now the price of the twins is relatively accessible (starting price of rs 2.5 lakh for the interceptor int 650 and rs 2.65 lakh for the continental gt 650 ex-showroom) and this means enthusiasts can spend a bit more to customise the twins for themselves for self-expression. the twins stand for crazy pure motorcycling where you can ride them every day and convert them into something that you want for yourself. they also come with a range of gear and apparel\u2014jackets t-shirts helmets boots ankle-high sneakers jeans gloves\u2014that are inspired by the 1960s.</div></div>