<div><div><h2>Ruias make Rs 54,389 crore offer for Essar Steel</h2></div><div>the ruias promoters of the essar group have sought to turn the tables on arcelormittal with its eleventh hour offer of rs 54389-crore offer to settle the dues of banks and other creditors of debt-laden essar steel and keep the company within their stable. the offer is rs 12188 crore more than the rs 42202 crore bid put in by ln mittal-owned arcelormittal which has been selected as the preferred bidder by the lenders last week as part of the corporate insolvency resolution process under the insolvency and bankruptcy code. the offer from the ruias includes an upfront cash payment of rs 47507 crore to all creditors including rs 45559 crore to the senior secured financial creditors indicating 100 per cent recovery. the total dues of essar steel amount to rs 54389 crore which the ruias have now offered to pay up in full. however the ruias did not reveal the source of funds. the ruias on thursday submitted the repayment proposal to the committee of creditors (coc) for full settlement of the entire admitted claims of the financial creditors operational creditors and workmen and employees of essar steel aggregating rs 54389 crore. “the coc is empowered to consider and approve this settlement plan with the requisite voting share on the basis of which the corporate insolvency resolution process against essar steel may be withdrawn” the ruias said in a statement. bankers said they have not taken a view on the essar promoter’s proposal stating that they will study the proposal and take a decision. essar steel is one of the 12 companies identified by the reserve bank of india for resolution under the bankruptcy code in the wake of defaults on loan repayment. the battle for essar steel with a annual capacity of 10 million metric tons has been one of the most hotly contested under the insolvency resolution process. supreme court had recently given arcelor mittal and russia’s vtb capital-led numetal ltd. a deadline of two weeks that expired thursday to pay off dues in group companies. numetal had failed to pay their dues by the deadline paving the way for arcelor to be declared as the preferred bidder by lenders. arcelormittal and numetal had both offered to pay rs 42000 crore for the mill. anil agarwal’s vedanta ltd. and jsw steel ltd. had also expressed interest to buy the mill. arcelor and numetal had put in bids in the second round after their offers in the first round were seen as invalid. numetal faced disqualification as its 25 per cent stake was owned by aurora trust of the ruia family the promoters of essar steel while arcelormittal’s first bid was rejected because of it holding shares in loan-defaulting companies uttam galva steel and kss petron. for the second round of bids vtb bank severed ties with the ruia family by buying out aurora trust’s stake in numetal. on its part arcelormittal transferred rs 7000 crore to an escrow account of sbi to clear outstanding loans of uttam galva and kss petron. while the resolution plan of arcelor mittal currently under the coc’s consideration takes care of only the secured creditors (the banks) by offering this settlement the ruias said they are ready to pay up the entire dues that will lead to not only maximum recovery for the lenders but also for all other classes of creditors thus taking the company out of the corporate insolvency resolution process under section 12a of the ibc. “if the coc were to accept the resolution plan currently under consideration it will have to settle for a sizeable haircut. moreover the offer does not provide for meaningful payment to operational and other unsecured creditors” the ruias said. prashant ruia director essar said: “essar steel got into difficulty because of external factors. regardless the value and quality of the asset can be ascertained from the interest shown and value offered by all the global steel majors. it has been our constant endeavour to arrive at the best resolution for all stakeholders of esil. in fact even after the onset of the insolvency resolution process the shareholders of essar steel had made offers to settle the debt of the company but the lenders did not accept those offers.” “we believe our current proposal will provide 100 per cent recovery to secured creditors and lenders and maximum recovery for unsecured creditors. this is well in excess of that offered in the proposal under consideration and is in line with value maximisation which is the underlying principle of the ibc process” ruia said. on the reasons for the firm ending up in the insolvency court essar services ltd said “cancellation of supply of natural gas which is the main raw material for essar steel by the government despite the firm having a firm gas allocation from the ministry of petroleum and natural gas. this led to idling of 65 per cent of plant capacity and no compensation was offered for the loss.” “repeated damage by insurgents to the vizag slurry pipeline that carries iron ore fines to the esil plant. this led to huge disruption in raw material supply and significant losses because of increase in cost of raw materials. to fund the losses on account of the above essar promoters infused an additional corpus of approximately rs 8000 crore over and above the contributed equity of rs 11000 crore” it said. “even in the period of financial stress essar steel honoured its interest obligations of rs 12000 crore mainly by the fund infusion by the promoters. essar steel successfully mitigated the aforesaid challenges and thereafter a restructuring plan was agreed with the lenders in december 2016. despite this the company was referred to the ibc by the rbi an action that essar strongly contested” essar services said. essar oil was sold to rosneft of russia in a deal worth rs 72600 crore or $12.9 billion in 2017. essar has invested over rs 120000 crore — one of the largest by any firm in india — in building greenfield businesses across the sectors of energy infrastructure metals & mining and services. “over the last one year the group has repaid debt of rs 80000 crore and by this proposal plans to repay another rs 45000 crore of debt (at no loss to the lenders) thus cumulatively repaying rs 125000 crore of debt (which is 75 per cent of group debt) which again is the largest by any indian corporate” the ruia firm said.</div></div>