<div><div><h2>Lenders approved our bid to buy Essar Steel: ArcelorMittal</h2></div><div>a day after the ruias — the original promoters of essar steel india ltd — put in the last-minute bid to retain the company within their stable arcelormittal said lenders of essar steel have approved a joint offer by arcelormittal sa and japan’s nippon steel & sumitomo metal corp as the final bid for the debt-laden company. the committee of creditors of essar steel has accepted the joint offer made by arcelormittal and nippon steel arcelormittal said in a statement. the resolution plan includes an upfront payment of rs 42000 crore to the lenders and a rs 8000-crore capital injection in essar steel to support operational improvement the ln mittal-owned firm said. arcelormittal intends to increase essar steel’s finished steel shipments to 8.5 million tonnes over the medium term. the long-term plan is to increase finished steel shipments to between 12 and 15 million tonnes through the addition of new iron and steelmaking assets arcelormittal said. on thursday the ruias had sought to turn the tables on arcelormittal with its eleventh hour offer of rs 54389-crore offer to settle the dues of banks and other creditors of debt-laden essar steel and keep the company within their stable. the ruia offer was rs 12188 crore more than the rs 42202 crore bid put in by arcelormittal which has been selected as the preferred bidder by the lenders last week as part of the corporate insolvency resolution process under the insolvency and bankruptcy code. the total dues of essar steel amount to rs 54389 crore. however the ruias did not reveal the source of funds. “arcelormittal will own the majority stake and nippon steel will own a nearly equal stake” a nippon steel official said. the companies would increase the output of essar steel to 8.5 million tonnes a year from 6.5 million tonnes and later take it up to 15 million tonnes a year the statement said without giving a timeline. essar steel is one of the 12 companies identified by the reserve bank of india for resolution under the bankruptcy code in the wake of defaults on loan repayment. the battle for essar steel with a annual capacity of 10 million metric tons has been one of the most hotly contested under the insolvency resolution process. supreme court had recently given arcelor mittal and russia’s vtb capital-led numetal ltd. a deadline of two weeks that expired thursday to pay off dues in group companies. numetal had failed to pay their dues by the deadline paving the way for arcelor to be declared as the preferred bidder by lenders. arcelormittal and numetal had both offered to pay rs 42000 crore for the mill. anil agarwal’s vedanta ltd. and jsw steel ltd. had also expressed interest to buy the mill. arcelor and numetal had put in bids in the second round after their offers in the first round were seen as invalid. numetal faced disqualification as its 25 per cent stake was owned by aurora trust of the ruia family the promoters of essar steel while arcelormittal’s first bid was rejected because of it holding shares in loan-defaulting companies uttam galva steel and kss petron. for the second round of bids vtb bank severed ties with the ruia family by buying out aurora trust’s stake in numetal. on its part arcelormittal transferred rs 7000 crore to an escrow account of sbi to clear outstanding loans of uttam galva and kss petron. an essar spokesperson on friday said “this is not the first time that shareholders and management of essar steel have put forward a resolution plan. the company was continuously approaching lenders for a restructuring proposal prior to it getting admitted into nclt. post admission into ibc process also the shareholders of esil has made offers to coc in april 2018 and july 2018 offering a comprehensive resolution plan for esil. unfortunately on both the occasions our proposal was declined by coc.”</div></div>