<div><div><h2>On strong order inflows: L&T consolidated net jumps 23 per cent YoY to Rs 2,230.49 crore</h2></div><div>larsen and toubro (l&t) on wednesday beat analysts’ estimates on all fronts in its july-september earnings. the company’s consolidated net profit jumped 23 per cent year-on-year to rs 2230.49 crore. the impressive performance was because of a strong year-on-year growth of 46 per cent in fresh order wins at rs 41921 crore. revenue from operations during the period grew 21 per cent to rs 32081 crore. the company reported a 27 per cent y-o-y growth in ebitda (earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation) to rs 3800 crore. consequently the ebitda margins expanded by 60 basis points to 11.8 per cent during the quarter. describing the current operating environment as “not easy” r shankar raman chief financial officer said at the earnings conference that “funding and liquidity constraints and government distractions” are major headwinds. “macro headwinds rising oil prices volatility in commodities and stock markets and volatility in currency markets along with the latest liquidity crunch are enough and more reasons for companies to underperform to their potential but l&t has been able to report satisfactory results bracing up all these headwinds” raman said. the growth in order inflows came on the back of recovery in orders won in the domestic market which grew 83 per cent y-o-y from rs 18300 crore to rs 33600 crore. “at long last there has been push towards making these orders happen and awards started gathering pace and hope it sustains” raman said. the company has kept its guidance intact on the order inflow and revenue at a growth rate of 10-12 per cent and 12-15 per cent respectively over last year. raman said looking at the half year position the company has no reason to doubt its ability to meet the guidance. international orders however declined 20 per cent y-o-y from rs 10400 crore to rs 8300 crore which he said was expected because the middle east – the company’s major international market is going through transition and the company is becoming more selective in terms of the areas it wants to operate in the region. “the dip in middle east orders has resulted in overall order inflow from international markets. however the company is seeking orders in africa and region and we hope better balance be brought about in the international orders going forward” raman said. fe</div></div>