<div><div><h2>IL&FS board warns about Rs 53,000 crore bank exposure</h2></div><div>the new board of infrastructure leasing and financial services (il&fs) led by uday kotak has cautioned that the rs 53000 crore exposure of banks to il&fs is “critical to financial stability” as its share in the total exposure of the banks to the nbfc sector is about 16 per cent. in its report on the state of affairs at il&fs the board warned that the “future impact of more defaults in the group if not addressed in an orderly manner may be catastrophic for financial stability.” the ministry of corporate affairs (mca) had noted in the original petition based on a confidential note dated september 30 2018 from the department of economic affairs that on a consolidated basis the borrowing of il&fs from banks and financial institutions (debentures loans cash credit and commercial paper) comes to about rs 63000 crore as per the balance sheet of 2017-2018. “if the exposure of banks to the il&fs group is assumed to be about rs 53000 crore then considering that the exposure of the entire banking sector to all nbfcs is about rs 3.3 lakh crore il&fs group is not inconsequential but critical to the financial stability as its share in the total exposure of the banks to the nbfc sector is about 16 per cent” the board said in its report submitted to the national company law tribunal on wednesday. there is substantial public interest in ensuring financial solvency and good governance and management of this group it said. when asked about state bank of india’s exposure its chairman rajnish kumar said “our exposure is around rs 3800 crore but that’s spread across 10-12 special purpose vehicles. we have picked up small shares in them. they are all performing assets.” il&fs group owes rs 25767 crore towards investment in non-convertible debentures (ncds) by investors commercial paper (cp) rs 3028 crore nbfcs rs 1707 crore corporates rs 1102 crore financial institutions rs 9137 crore and foreign banks rs 6030 crore the report said. the board has warned that the cascading impact of the default by the il&fs group on the financial sector would be quite substantial as evidenced from a partial default of some companies and its repercussions in the financial market in the month of september 2018. “the future impact of more defaults in the group if not addressed in an orderly manner may be catastrophic for the financial stability” it said. any sudden impairment in its ability to finance and support the infrastructure projects would be quite damaging to the overall infrastructure sector financial markets and the economy considering its systemically important nature and its borrowing level of rs 91000 crore. “therefore the timely intervention by the union of india was required to prevent collapse of the il&fs group and to limit the contagion effect on the markets” the report said. as on october 26 2018 over 130 creditors have issued notices to il&fs group entities. “the new board considers that given the complexities surrounding the il&fs group individual creditor action is unlikely to realise any value for the creditors and would also make an orderly final resolution impossible to achieve” the board report said. it recommended that the “larger public interest requires that the rights of individual creditors are suspended pending final resolution”. therefore the report said it requires a “calm period” and continuation of the moratorium to achieve the final resolution is critical. as on october 8 2018 the overdue amounts relating to financial debt (comprising of defaulted principal amounts and interest payments) within the il&fs group aggregates to rs 4776 crore. “this figure does not take into account those facilities which have been accelerated (i.e. where demands have been made for repayment of the entire principal amounts on account of existing defaults under the credit facilities) crystallisation of non-fund based facilities and default interest accruing on account of such defaults. the report further said the key financial issue affecting the il&fs group is high level of aggregate leverage which is disproportionate to the aggregate economic value of its business assets or cash flows. “this has understandably led to inadequate cash flows impacting its solvency and day to day operations. the mismatch of cash flows is compounded by diverse nature and type of creditors and the structure of the il&fs group as that increases the difficulties in using the surplus cash flow at the operating entity level” it said. on october 1 2018 the government had moved the nclt to supersede the board of il&fs which had defaulted on payments of over rs 3000 crore over a two-month time period.</div></div>