<div><div><h2>Coal India offer-for-sale may fetch Centre Rs 15,000 crore</h2></div><div>the centre on tuesday announced sale of up to 9 per cent stake (558.66 million shares) in coal india (cil). at the floor price of rs 266 apiece the exercise could fetch the government up to rs 14860 crore. according to stock exchange filing by the coal miner the offer for sale (ofs) will have a base offer size of 3 per cent equity stake; there will be an additional offer of 6 per cent stake in case of over-subscription (greenshoe option). the two-day ofs will open for institutional bidders on wednesday while retail investors will bid on thursday. the floor price involves a discount of 3.6 per cent on cil’s closing price of rs 275.9 on the bse on tuesday. retail investors will get an additional discount of 5 per cent. so far in the current fiscal year the disinvestment receipts have remained just 12.5 per cent of budget estimate at rs 10029 crore. this makes it incumbent on the government to carry out at least few psu stake sales by december-end. recently the department of investment and public asset management (dipam) held roadshows in the us the uk hong kong and singapore for cil to gauge investor appetite. the government’s decision to go ahead with the cil ofs at a floor price which is nearly 15.8 per cent lower than the 52-week high price of rs 316/share indicates that the government wants to tap market during small windows of stability in the stock market to boost revenues. after a recent meeting with prime minister on the economy and the progress in implementation of the central budget finance minister had said that the government was confident of exceeding the disinvestment target in fy19 like it did in fy18. last year the centre was in a comfortable position on the disinvestment front by this time of the year. by october 2017 it was assured of receipts of rs 67000 crore — including rs 36915 crore from ongc which agreed to buy the government’s 51 per cent stake in hpcl. the centre ended up collecting the largest-ever disinvestment revenue of rs 1 lakh crore in fy18 against a target of rs 72500 crore. the centre is also banking on buy-backs in over a dozen psus such as ongc ntpc and nmdc a further fund offer under the existing cpse-etf monetisation of a portion of suuti holdings in axis bank and itc and strategic sales of a some relatively smaller companies. even though the centre has also lined up ofss in about a dozen other psus including hudco nbcc and bharat electronics market conditions would determine if these would actually go through. —</div></div>