<div><div><h2>Zydus Wellness, Cadila Healthcare acquire Heinz India for Rs 4,595 crore</h2></div><div>zydus wellness and cadila healthcare on wednesday said they were acquiring heinz india at a valuation of rs 4595 crore. heinz india is the subsidiary of kraft heinz and makes complan and glucon d. zydus wellness chairman sharvil patel said on a television channel that the acquisition makes sense given how difficult it is to acquire large brands in consumer space at the right valuation. “the combined entity will have five of the seven brands that are ranked number one and the combined distribution reach will go up to 4.5 lakh points” patel said. heinz india recorded revenues of around rs 1150 crore across four brands — complan glucon d nycil and sampriti ghee for the 12-month period to june 2018. the earnings before interest depreciation tax and amortisation (ebitda) was rs 225 crore. following this acquisition zydus wellness will have consolidated revenues of about rs 1700 crore. patel said the combined entity would have a 20 per cent plus net margin. “we are acquiring heinz india through a mix of debt and equity and private equity investors may invest in the company. cadila healthcare being a large shareholder of zydus wellness will also look at ingesting some equity” patel explained. shares of the two firms however were weak with analysts anxious the all-cash transaction was priced slightly on the higher side. moreover the possible purchase of an equity stake in the company by financial investors they felt could dilute the capital base. “assuming rs 2000 crore of debt and rs 2500 crore equity infusion by pes we estimate this deal to negatively impact cadila’s earnings by 4-5 per cent in fy19” analysts at hdfc securities wrote. the core business of health food and nutrition contributes more than 80 per cent to zydus’ business. with complan and glucon d in its stable the firm will be better positioned in the space. the distribution reach — with a combined strength of five manufacturing facilities 1800 distributors and nearly 2 million customer touch points — will be bigger. patel said cash flows were comfortable and there was room to leverage. “we are at a net debt-to-ebitda of 1.3 times” he said adding a large part of the transaction is going to be consummated through zydus wellness. the valuation of rs 4595 crore includes net working capital of rs 40 crore cash of rs 15 crore and assumes no debt. the group is also in talks with a number of private equity players for funding. this will be the second acquisition for zydus wellness following the acquisition of nutralite in 2006. heinz india owns two large manufacturing facilities in aligarh and sitarganj and teams devoted to operations research sales marketing and support. “both businesses are going to be growth drivers for the organization “ patel said. zydus wellness stock fell 4.29 per cent to end the day at rs 1203.95 on the bse while shares of cadila healthcare closed the session at rs 358.40 down 5.17 per cent. avendus capital acted as financial advisor to the company and khaitan & co acted as the legal advisor. —</div></div>