<div><div><h2>Ford recalls 2 million pickup trucks; seat belts can cause fires</h2></div><div>under pressure from us safety regulators ford is recalling about 2 million f-150 pickup trucks in north america because the seat belts can spark and cause fires. the recall which covers trucks from 2015 through 2018 model years comes about one month after the national highway traffic safety administration began investigating fires in the pickups which are the top-selling vehicles in the united states. ford said thursday that it has 23 reports of smoke or fire in us and canadian trucks but it’s not aware of any injuries. nhtsa began investigating in early august after getting five fire reports including three reports that trucks were destroyed. according to ford seat belt pre-tensioners can generate excessive sparks when they tighten before a crash. that can ignite gases inside a support pillar between the front and rear seats causing insulation and carpet to catch fire. the regular cab and supercrew cab trucks were built between march 12 2014 and aug. 23 2018 according to documents posted thursday by nhtsa. the seat belt pre-tensioners were made by zf-trw and now-defunct airbag and seat belt maker takata which was purchased by joyson another auto parts supplier. dealers will remove insulation and install heat-resistant tape to repair the trucks. they also will remove remnants of wiring tape and modify interior panels in regular cab trucks. owners will be notified starting september 24. in one of the complaints filed with the us government an owner in grand rapids michigan told nhtsa that on july 7 a deer ran into the driver’s side of a pickup causing minor damage. the side air bags inflated and after five to 10 minutes a passenger noticed a fire on the bottom of the post between the front and rear doors where the seat belts are located. “the truck went up in complete flames in a matter of minutes and is a complete loss” the owner wrote. people who file complaints are not identified in the nhtsa database. ford said in a filing thursday with us securities regulators that the recall will cost about usd 140 million and will be counted in third-quarter results. the company maintained its full-year adjusted earnings-per-share guidance of usd 1.30 to usd 1.50.</div></div>