<div><div><h2>Maruti Suzuki launches new Ertiga at  7.44 lakh onwards</h2></div><div>maruti suzuki india ltd on wednesday launched an all-new ertiga with prices starting at  7.44 lakh ex-showroom delhi. it goes up against the likes of honda br-v and mahindra marazzo in the mass market multi-purpose vehicle space which are available in a price range of  9.45 lakh and  13.9 lakh. the ertiga s petrol variants including two automatic trims are powered by an all-new 1.5-litre engine and are priced between  7.44 lakh and  9.95 lakh. the diesel variants have the same 1.3-litre engine as the earlier version and are tagged between  8.84 lakh and  10.9 lakh. the maruti suzuki ertiga 2018 based on the carmaker s 5th generation heartect platform is bigger than the previous version and offers 10% better fuel efficiency. the petrol variant now features a new 1.5-litre engine with smart hybrid technology and lithium-ion battery. according to maruti suzuki the new platform has made the ertiga stronger and more rigid thereby enhancing its safety and improving nvh levels.  the next-gen ertiga has been designed with thoughtful features and great attention to detail keeping in mind the requirements of our ever evolving customers  said maruti suzuki ceo kenichi ayukawa.  i m confident that our customers will appreciate best-in-class fuel efficiency which has increased by nearly 10% for the petrol variant  ayukawa said. the ertiga petrol variants with manual transmission have a fuel efficiency of 19.34 km/l while the automatic trims will give a fuel efficiency of 18.69 km/l. the diesel options will travel 25.47km in a litre of the fuel. designed specially for india ertiga was first launched in india in april 2012 and the company has sold over 4.2 lakh units so far. maruti suzuki india has invested over  900 crore in the development of the new ertiga. the new ertiga has received a significant facelift and is visibly at par with the looks of its main contenders the mahindra marazzo and honda br-v. it is more squared-off on the front with a more aggressive grille and headlamps. the rear-end has been remastered as well with tail lamps that extend all the way to the spoiler. the dimensions of the ertiga have also grown: it s longer by 99mm wider by 40mm and taller by 5mm. the wheelbase however has remained the same at 2740mm. despite the bump in external dimensions boot space has shrunk. it now stands at 32 litres. at the heart of this mpv are two engines: one new and one old. the petrol motor is the all-new 1.5-litre inline-four k15b producing 103bhp of power and 138nm of torque. this is mated with either five-speed manual or four-speed automatic transmissions. the diesel engine remains the same: 1.3-litre ddis which produces 90bhp of power and 200nm of torque and is mated to a five-speed manual transmission. there are no automatic diesel options available. maruti suzuki claims it offers best-in-class fuel efficiency that is 10% higher than the outgoing model. the manual petrol variant makes 19.34kmpl while the automatic makes 18.69kmpl. the diesel ertiga has a fuel efficiency of 25.47 kmpl. the insides of the ertiga are now more contemporary. it is now at par with its maruti siblings in terms of cabin niceties. the mpv gets a new dashboard infotainment system (apple carplay and android auto ready) instrument cluster flat-bottom steering wheel cruise control and faux wood inserts. the new ertiga comes in five paints jobs pearl metallic auburn red metallic magma grey real metallic oxford blue pearl arctic white and metallic silky silver.</div></div>