<div><div><h2>Ikea parent to create 11,500 jobs globally over two years</h2></div><div>ingka group the parent company of swedish furniture retailer ikea said it plans to create 11500 new jobs worldwide over the next two years as it seeks to grow its footprint. it will also invest in setting up fulfilment centres and to expand its digital capabilities. the holding company however said that 7500 employees of the current 160000 across 30 markets globally may become redundant. in india though it will be on an expansion spree. in august the first ikea store opened in hyderabad. the retailer s second offline store is due to open in mumbai next summer and it is also set to launch its online operations in the city. ikea has four land parcels across telangana maharashtra karnataka and delhi-ncr and is continuing to look for opportunities in all major indian cities.  the idea (behind the global transformation) is how we can meet customers additionally apart from our big box stores how we can meet them more closer in the cities under new (offline) formats that are being developed and also to meet them digitally. this fits fantastically in india where we see that the smartphone plays a very important role. it s a digitized country  said peter betzel ceo ikea india. ikea plans to increase its india headcount from 1500 to 15000 with half of the jobs reserved for women said betzel without giving a timeframe. it plans to create 3000 new jobs over the next two years in the country. that said certain existing roles will change in india too. the company confirmed that all employees will get to explore new opportunities. apart from jobs at ikea stores and city centres the furniture maker will create new roles in digital data analytics diversified fulfilment networks and personalisation.  india is an expanding market. we will create many more jobs in many new areas. we will now have to have competence working in our smaller city store formats and competence in e-commerce for instance and then inside the organization a few jobs will transform. so there will be people who are today working in one job and tomorrow will take on another job. that is also part of the transformation  said anna-carin mansson country people and culture manager ikea india. ingka group is assessing its workforce globally and is looking to simplify its business model to enable greater focus on value additions.  we continue to grow and perform strongly. at the same time we recognise that the retail landscape is transforming at a scale and pace we ve never seen before. as customer behaviours change rapidly we are investing and developing our business to meet their needs in better and newer ways...together these elements guide our work and build our inclusive open and honest culture and we re going to support our co-workers in the best possible way throughout this change  said jesper brodin ceo ingka group.</div></div>