<div><div><h2>Jet Airways continues with incremental layoffs to cut cost</h2></div><div>crisis-hit continues to use layoffs in small chunks as one of the means to reduce cost with the carrier handing over pink slips to around 16 more employees a person familiar with the development said monday.these employees were working as ground staff in jet airways s kochi and hyderabad offices said this person. late last month the airline had laid off 20 employees including some senior-level executives from the in-flight services department. prior to that it reportedly had asked 15 managerial-level employees from various departments including engineering security and sales to leave the company. the naresh goyal-promoted full-service carrier which has a fleet of 124 planes has a workforce of 16000 employees.  the airline continues to layoff people from various departments in small groups. it has already shut its city office in hyderabad which had 4-5 employees. last week the airline asked some of its employees working in kochi office to quit. together it has retrenched another 16 people from these two offices  said this person. jet airways has said it is optimising its resources in select cities including re-deploying resources where needed as part of its turnaround plan which includes a comprehensive network review and capacity deployment.  jet airways has undertaken a series of initiatives to enhance the economic performance efficiency and productivity for the long-term health of its business  a jet airways spokesperson said. the airline said as part of this strategy which comprised a comprehensive network review capacity is being moved from uneconomical and point-to-point routes to the airline s hubs at mumbai and delhi for denser more profitable and productive operations.  consequently the company is optimising its resources in select cities including re-deploying resources where needed for greater synergy with the revised level of operations  the spokesperson said.  which is partially owned by etihad airways pjsc of abu dhabi posted a net loss of  1261 crore during the september quarter and has been defaulting on salary payments to some of its staff. this was the third successive quarterly loss for jet airways. last week jet airways chief executive officer vinay dube had said that the airline was in  active discussion  with various investors to secure financing to navigate through current headwinds and create long-term growth.</div></div>