<div><div><h2>Indians pay more for Netflix than Japanese, Canadians but get less number of movies</h2></div><div>although lower than major markets like the us uk and european countries video streaming platform netflix is priced higher in india than 9 other countries including japan and canada. according to a research report by comparitech.com netflix s india monthly subscription plan which begins from rs 500 is the 10th cheapest among a list of 24 countries. a country-by-country comparison of subscription plans shows that the cheapest place to watch netflix is turkey. at a monthly cost of just $3.27 it is almost 60% cheaper than the us and uk. turkey is followed by argentina brazil japan mexico colombia and canada.  in fact on a cost-per-month basis the us and uk don t fare too well with the us ranking as the 26th cheapest place and the uk as the 25th. this is probably due to netflix using the us uk canada et. all to subsidize its growth elsewhere  the said. the size of the netflix library also varies from country to country. due to its extensive library of anime japan has the largest number of movies and shows   about 6000. india on the other hand gets about 5000 netflix titles out of which about 3500 are movies. the  which has already made a profit of rs 20 lakh in its second year of india operations has been debated as two of its closest competitors   amazon prime video and hotstar   have much cheaper plans costing rs 999 per year. the world s no.1 ott platform which has announced that it has no plans to lower subscription rates in india is however going to test in some countries like malaysia. if the mobile-only subscription plan works out in india then the entry-level subscription plan may automatically become cheaper. the existing basic plan for netflix priced at rs 500 per month allows a subscriber to watch movies and shows on laptop phone tablet and even tv. netflix india has 5 web series and a feature film scheduled soon for release. the web series comprises sports drama co-produced by actor anil kapoor arriving in december; feminist drama directed by deepa mehta adaptations of books and  the latter stars emraan hashmi and is co-produced by shah rukh khan and  a spin-off of the iconic film franchise. a feature film called directed by leena yadav will also stream soon.</div></div>