<div><div><h2>IndiGo offers flight tickets from Rs 899 in new sale</h2></div><div>budget passenger carrier indigo is offering fares  as low as rs 899 for domestic flights and rs 3199 for international flights in a new sale. under this offer the budget carrier is offering as many as 10 lakh tickets on a discounted rate to its customer on flights across its network. booking for indigo s  fare-tastic winters! offer started today 21 november 2018 and will end on 25 november. in the five-day booking period tickets can be booked for travel from 6 december 2018 to 15 april 2019 indigo mentioned on its website.  we are delighted to announce this five-day winter sale across our network between november 21 to november 25. this being a year end season when most of our customers plan their vacation through this festive sale we hope to create more flexibility of choice for our customers to fly at low fares. we are sure that the market will quickly take up the seats we have available starting at fares as low as inr 899  said indigo s chief commercial officer william boulter in the statement. starting fares on some of the indigo routes under the latest offer include delhi-ahmedabad (rs 1599) delhi-bengaluru (rs 2899) delhi-chennai (rs 2899) delhi-bhubaneswar (rs 2799) mumbai-bengaluru (rs 1899) mumbai-ahmedabad (rs 1299) bengaluru-ahmedabad (rs 1999) and bengaluru-bhubaneswar (rs 2199). indigo mentioned that there is limited inventory under the offer and therefore discounts will be provided to customers subject to availability and at the sole discretion of the carrier .  indigo s all-inclusive rs 899 fare is valid for flight bookings made through all channels during the offer period. the offer is valid for bookings made during the offer period at least 15 days prior to the date of departure provided that the date of travel is no later than 15 april 2019  the carrier mentioned on its site the rs 899 offer is valid only on non-stop flights on various sectors across indigo s domestic and international network.  this offer cannot be clubbed with any other offer scheme or promotion. the offer is not valid on indigo s group bookings  the budget carrier said. meanwhile indigo has said that it will start daily non-stop flight between bengaluru and gorakhpur from 7 january 2019. earlier this month indigo started flight services from bengaluru to allahabad. indigo india s biggest airline with a fleet of 190 aircraft including airbus a320s and 12 atr aircraft offers over 1200 daily flights and connects 48 domestic destinations and 11 international destinations. last month offering customers all-inclusive fares starting from rs 899. in that diwali sale indigo had offered 10 lakh seats up for grabs. indian aviation market one of the world s fastest growing has maintained its growth momentum this year. domestic airlines carried 10.27 crore passengers in the first nine months of the year a growth of 21% from the same period of the last year. the recent slump in global crude prices has come at a time when domestic airlines are struggling with high operating costs. interglobe aviation ltd which runs indigo had swung to its maiden quarterly loss since it went public.  as sharply higher jet fuel prices and a weak rupee outweighed an increase in passenger traffic. meanwhile cash-starved has announced introduction of 20 additional services across its domestic and international network starting 1 december. the new flights on the international network include a new non-stop service between pune and singapore besides introduction of second daily services connecting mumbai and delhi with doha as well as addition of a seventh daily frequency between mumbai and dubai. will start late-night flights from 30 november. these flights will connect cities like bengaluru delhi ahmedabad coimbatore and goa at fares beginning from rs 1000. the new late-night flights will operate between late night and early morning.</div></div>