<div><div><h2>Peters Surgical invests  5 million to expand India plant</h2></div><div>three years after having acquired a controlling equity stake in gurgaon-based stericat french medical devices company peters surgical sas has invested over  5 million to expand its existing manufacturing facility in india. peters surgical which has presence in 90 countries is also open to more acquisitions in india.  we want to enrich our portfolio of products  said thierry herbreteau ceo peters surgical.  we believe we have to do more and more and if you buy a quality partner and make it a part of your journey it works very well.  rajdeep das ceo of peters surgical s india operations said:  we are open to acquisitions it could be products companies distribution channels depending on the market we address where we want to expand our portfolio. we we want to move into new markets we are dynamic and open. these are strategic plans we don t have numbers at this point in time but we are evaluating and seeing what are the strategic areas.  while the company has increased its production capacity to 33 million surgical sutures a year it also plans to manufacture products such as surgical clips single-use instruments for laparoscopic surgery surgical meshes and tissue glues at its manesar facility in haryana. herbreteau said that newly launched health insurance scheme ayushman bharat gives them a lot of hope and they are very excited to be in india.  india is one of the potential countries. there has been a lot of growth in terms of population mr modi s insurance programme. our assessment of the indian market is that we have a lot of role to play and we can only capture the needs if we are present. it is one of the fastest growing markets and we are very excited. we have got the capacity capability if needed we will open another site  he said. the manufacturing site in india not only will serve the patients in india but also other countries.  from the current 230 people we have at present in next 5 years the number would go up to 500. the company also plans to build a research and development it and logistic hub in india  added herbreteau. founded in 1926 peters surgical is the second-largest wound care company in france.</div></div>