<div><div><h2>Instagram crackdown on fake followers benefits genuine influencers</h2></div><div>food blogger and instagrammer vernika awal often gets messages from unknown people on instagram who claim they can increase her follower count. one such person offered to charge her  50 for 100 followers. however the founder of delectable reveries a food blog awal has 13000 instagram followers and insists on increasing her followers without bending the rules.  i got my 13000 followers over three years but i know of a person who started around the same time as me and has over 200000 followers  awal says. awal s perception is on track. according to salman moin co-founder of social booth a digital marketing firm roughly 40% of indian instagrammers use third-party apps to increase their follower count. for  1000-1500 they offer you 25000 to 30000 followers which you can use on multiple accounts moin explained. so when a vendor approaches an instagrammer he/she basically has an account on these apps and uses them to increase the instagrammer s followers. there s bad news for such third-party apps though. on 19 november instagram via a blog post announced it will be cracking down on such apps. that means that those who have increased their followers from such services might see a tremendous drop in their follower count soon directly affecting their business since follower count helps  influencers determine their rate. in fact ayush choudhary founder dfordelhi a hyperlocal social media platform says their rates are  entirely dependent upon followers . though influencer marketing agencies now consider engagement (likes comments) as a priority all of this is still a factor of followers in some way. choudhary says he considers anyone with over 10000 followers an influencer. that said shudeep majumdar co-founder of zefmo pvt. ltd an influencer marketing firm said that while reach is a major determining factor for rates it s not the only factor. according to him the follower count holds about 20-30% weightage in measuring an influencer s worth. yet most experts in the field agree that a minimum number of followers will still be needed for anyone to fulfil the requirements to be considered an influencer. further the instagram announcement is part of its ongoing crackdown on bots fake followers and other such activities. according to dfordelhi s choudhary some influencers in india have already seen  huge drops in their follower counts even to the tune of 30000 followers. he thinks this new move will also have an impact. on the other hand influencers who have a genuine following are happy. awal said she s often overlooked by brands because she doesn t  have enough followers . ishita bhattacharya an instagram influencer in the fashion segment corroborates this sentiment. zefmo s majumdar thinks that moves like this will  make it easier to differentiate between real influencers and those that are churning followers.</div></div>