<div><div><h2>Govt moves SC for bank guarantee from RCom before Jio deal</h2></div><div>the centre on monday approached the supreme court to reiterate its demand of  2940 crore in bank guarantees from reliance communications ltd (rcom) for its payment liabilities on spectrum before clearing the anil ambani-led telecom firm s proposed asset sale to elder brother mukesh ambani s reliance jio infocomm ltd. justice a.k. sikri admitted the petition and set the next date of hearing on tuesday. the centre s move assumes significance as it could  which is part rcom s debt resolution plan and is pending before the department of telecommunication (dot) for approval. the centre approached the apex court to challenge a telecom disputes settlement and appellate tribunal (tdsat) order on 1 october which rejected dot s plea seeking bank guarantees before approving the rcom-jio deal. additional solicitor general p.s. narasimha told the court that the centre was looking for some kind of a security for the outstanding spectrum dues. he said the centre did not have details of encumbrance of the land offered by rcom as a guarantee. narasimha further argued that the telecom guidelines clearly mandate the government to secure outstanding dues only by bank guarantees and by no other method.  there is no precedent for the centre to accept land/buildings as security towards unpaid dues...the land provides no such securitisation and cannot be monetized on demand. undertaking not to alienate property worth  1400 crore is not in compliance with trading guidelines  the centre said. in response to the centre s plea rcom s counsel kapil sibal said the company was not in a position to make the payment as it was undergoing insolvency proceedings.  i can t give a bank guarantee. if this deal is not allowed to go through a lot of entities will suffer. banks who are secured creditors will be in jeopardy and the deal falls through.  the beleaguered telecom operator which had been struggling with a mountain of debt and  finally decided to wind up its wireless business in december 2017. back then it had said that rcom will essentially become a business-to-business (b2b) entity instead of a business-to-consumer (b2c) company and will provide submarine cable systems with latest technology to meet india s growing cloud infrastructure and data capacity demand from global enterprises and over-the-top service providers. it had also announced a deal with reliance jio under which rcom s assets including 122.4mhz of 4g spectrum in the 800/900/1800/2100mhz bands over 43000 towers 178000 route km of fibre with a pan-india footprint and 248 media convergence nodes covering 5 million sq  ft used for hosting telecom infrastructure will be bought by reliance jio. rcom wanted to seal the deal by march 2018 but all assets have not been sold yet. in august rcom had said it had its media convergence nodes and related infrastructure assets worth  2000 crore besides the sale of fibre worth   3000 crore to reliance jio. however the spectrum sale was stuck after the dot sought bank guarantees before clearing the transaction.  the hon ble supreme court will have to ascertain the consequence of allowing the petition filed by the government as that could have a negative impact on the companies ability to pay off the banks and also scuttle the asset sale of rcom to jio. furthermore it is patently clear that any amount that rcom plans to raise to effectively service its debt will be through the proposed route of asset sale  said simranjeet singh principal associate at athena legal a law firm.  mint s</div></div>