<div><div><h2>Dewar's ambassadors create whiskey cocktails with haldi, hari elaichi and jaggery for Indian millennials</h2></div><div>"tasmayee laha roymoneycontrol newsdewar s has recently on-boarded two globally known faces from the bartending community  emily thompson and ernest reid  to be their india ambassadors. the duo is presently touring the country. they would be spending a year in different cities getting people to experience dewar s line of double-aged scotch and delectable classic cocktails. the effort from dewar s comes in play as bacardi strengthens its foreground and investments in india s whiskey market.moneycontrol has a chat with emily and ernest about their plans for the indian market. here are edited excerpts:q. tell us more about your journey with whiskey so far.a. ernest: my journey with whiskey has been all about learning understanding and appreciating the present. whiskey to me is like a liquid photograph. certain scotches i smell take me back to memories of beautiful landscapes open fireplaces and good times. i have had the opportunity to travel the world teach and enthuse people about scotch and interact with wonderful people.emily: i ve had a long and unbelievable journey with whiskey one that began with a blended scotch and coke as my first drink. since then i ve gone back and forth between american scotch and sometimes dabbling in healthy obsessions of japanese and irish. whiskey has some amazing varietals in the category and there is huge diversity in flavours textures and aromas. dewar s with its honey notes and double-aging process really exemplifies what a good blend can achieve  a delicate balance between flavours and rich smoothness.q. is dewar's running campaigns to promote their brand in india a. dewar s attempt is to resonate with a younger audience and be the quirky scotch which is every indian millennial s go-to drink.keeping the same in mind our signature experiential platform the doer s club has been built on the back of this philosophy and macro trends relevant to millennials such as comedy gourmet street food music and the thriving cocktail culture in india.we have the doers club gourmet street food doers club pop up and doers club crowd work show.q. could you elaborate on the comeback of classic whiskey cocktails in india and what does a new-generation whiskey drinker look for  a. ernest: the indian whiskey market has welcomed more variety thus widening the consumer s horizon. the classic cocktail scene is a tried-and-tested way to establish flavours that can be enhanced with cocktails. it's no secret that whiskey drinking in india has a bit of a stuffy and old man's image attached to it but it is slowly moving away from the norm. for example a lot of time and skill has gone into creating the baseline flavour of honey in all of dewar's expressions so using honey as a sweetener would be a classic way of thinking when inventing a cocktail with it.today millennials are spending more on travel and that has developed a willingness to experiment which is a major part of the experience. emily: i ve noticed that india s cocktail culture is continuously evolving and reinventing itself. sitcoms like mad men suits and how i met your mother have been influential in popularizing the phenomenon of casually enjoying whiskey serving our purpose and inspiring young drinkers.the new generation whiskey drinker thrives on new and novel experiences with unconventional occasion-themed cocktails whether it be for star wars day bad poetry day or marrying gourmet food and whiskey. millennials love to experiment and that is exactly what we want to achieve through the doer s club platforms. these interactive formats are gaining traction and really speak to the audience in a way they recognize and enjoy.q. tell us about the mixology dexterity in india and local palates.ernest: the entire bartending community has now tangibly evolved due to india s thriving cocktail culture. well-travelled indians are experiencing this and the demand has now seeped into india s non-metros. therefore i love working with locally-sourced ingredients in india such as haldi hari elaichi and jaggery but make sure to twist these flavours into my own style.emily: i have thoroughly enjoyed playing with india s vivid flavours and tend to use modifiers like dried rich fruit and items on the sweeter side. factoring in that there is a big culture here of pairing food with drinks this has helped us in curating a wholesome experience focused around a relevant menu which aims to elevate the indian palate. these experiences have transformed the bartending fraternity in india giving an impetus to more and more innovations."</div></div>