<div><div><h2>After years of run-of-the-mill motor insurance, IRDAI now wants to give you options</h2></div><div>"m saraswathymoneycontrol newsyour regular motor insurance product taken for protection against damage to your car/bike (also callee own damage or od) may look significantly different in the near future.not only is the insurance regulator looking to allow short-term duration products it may also permit technology-led solutions for dynamic pricing and better servicing during emergencies.here technology-led products are also on the anvil meaning that even concepts like trial-based products could be allowed. telematics or tracking devices will be a key component of the policy.own damage refers to the insurance taken by vehicle owners against damages to their own car/bike. unlike the mandatory motor third party insurance which covers vehicle owners against third party liabilities during road accidents od covers are optional.insurance regulatory and development authority of india (irdai) has set up a working group to allow modifications of the product structure including for technology-led covers.since motor insurance was earlier under a tariff regime where pricing was regulated all product features were dictated by the rules. after motor (except third party insurance) and several other product categories were de-tariffed insurers were free to fix the premiums.however in motor od insurers suffered from the inability to launch innovative product features or tweak the policy duration. in other markets companies have begun offering concepts like insure-on-the-go meaning you can buy a cover for your vehicle against damage only when you take it out for a ride.in india on the other hand any additional cover requires the insured to purchase 'add-ons' by paying more premium. these include engine protection no-claim bonus roadside assistance as well as zero depreciation covers. other markets have these as a part of the core policy.similarly co-ownership of cars is being considered globally. once this is operational multiple parties could be responsible for the car's insurance. how this will pan out in the indian market will be crucial considering that vehicle theft rates are high here.trial-based covers are also not uncommon in us and western europe where a owner is put on a trial for a few weeks to check his driving behaviour using technology. pricing is arrived at after using data analytics to map the information collected.european countries are also talking about driverless cars and international insurers are in talks to decide who will be the policyholder in this. while this may seem a futuristic concept insurers are hoping to sell their first driverless car policy by 2025. but the wait could be longer in india where road accidents are the biggest killer.irdai has taken the first steps towards having flexible motor policies to match the current needs. how quickly this will be implemented is the big question."</div></div>