<div><div><h2>News in Pics: Your daily dose of pictures from around the world</h2></div><div>" former prime minister manmohan singh union home minister rajnath singh former congress president sonia gandhi congress president rahul gandhi bjp veteran lk advani and other leaders pay floral tribute to former prime minister indira gandhi on her 101st birth anniversary at parliament house in new delhi monday. (image source: pti) police personnel block the devotees who were staging 'namajapa' protest at sannidhanam in sabarimala sunday. (image source: pti) nascar cup series driver joey logano (22) celebrates winning the ford ecoboost 400 and the nascar cup series championship at homestead-miami speedway. (image source: reuters) alexander zverev of germany holds his winner trophy and novak djokovic of serbia holds his runner-up trophy after their atp world tour finals singles final tennis match at the o2 arena in london sunday. (image source: pti) motorcyclists pass a burning bus set fire by opposition protesters demanding to know how petro caribe funds have been used by the current and past administrations on the sidelines of events marking the 215th anniversary of independence battle of vertieres in port-au-prince haiti sunday. (image source: pti) los angeles lakers forward lebron james (23) dunks as miami heat forward justise winslow (20) watches during the first half at american airlines arena. (image source: reuters) switzerland's haris seferovic right scores past belgium's goalkeeper thibaut courtois during the uefa nations league soccer match between switzerland and belgium at the swissporarena stadium in lucerne switzerland on sunday. (image source: pti) a woman who supports migrants embraces another supporter to help her leave the area so as not to be attacked by demonstrators protesting the presence of thousands of central american migrants in tijuana mexico sunday. image source: pti) oil spills in the bay of bengal due to a rupture in the hose connected to an oil tanker ship 'mt coral stars' at the ennore port in chennai sunday. (image source: pti) prime minister narendra modi and haryana chief minister manohar lal khattar inagurate the ballabhgarh-mujesar metro rail line at sultanpur village in gurugram monday. (image source: pti)"</div></div>