<div><div><h2>Kotak, L&T, NBCC, 2 others submit EoI to take over bankrupt Jaypee Infratech</h2></div><div>"vandana ramnanimoneycontrol newsas five companies - nbcc kotak investment l& t infrastructure singapore-based cube highways and suraksha group - have expressed their interest in taking over the embattled jaypee infratech jaypee homebuyers have said that they support the process and hope that a successful bidder will complete the projects.in october after creditors of jaypee infratech (jil) approved a proposal to invite bids for the embattled company the interim resolution professional anuj jain had invited expressions of interest (eoi) for resolution plans from companies.the last date for submitting the expressions of interest was november 9. the provisional list of applicants was to be prepared by november 19 and the last date for submission of objections to the provisional list is november 24. the list of prospective resolution applications will be issued on december 4. applicants need to submit the resolution plan by january 5 2019.this is the second time that the resolution process has commenced. the first time round there were three bidders in the race to buy jaypee infratech - lakshadweep adani group and kotak realty fund-cube highways. only lakshadweep a joint venture of sudhir valia-led suraksha asset reconstruction company and mumbai-based dosti realty was left in the fray but its rs 7000 crore offer was ultimately rejected by a committee of creditors for being too low.the interim resolution professional has received five eois from interested parties jil said in its filing to nse on tuesday. out of the five companies l& t infrastructure development projects is only interested in 165-km yamuna expressway and not for the development of land parcels attached to the expressway belonging to jil.in a filing to bse on november 20 state-owned nbcc said it has submitted the eoi for submitting resolution plan for jil and the company has been provisionally shortlisted by irp of jil as prospective resolution applicant.suraksha asset reconstruction has shown interest along with its entities lakshdeep investments and finance and suraksha realty.homebuyers support nclt process we are fully supportive of the nclt process  home buyers representatives said adding that with the process for resolution of jil is picking pace the nclt should deploy the rs 750 crore collected by the supreme court for the benefit of home buyers for construction of apartments. this will ensure that while this 270 day long process for selection of a new owner of jil takes place further time is not lost and the rs 750 crore collected for the benefit of home buyers are actually used to provide relief to home buyers  they said.jaiprakash associates had submitted rs 750 crore in the registry of the supreme court for refund to buyers after the sc rebuked the promoters for causing pain to buyers for years. however this amount has now been transferred to nclt as per the order of the apex court that has now directed to start a fresh bidding process.next stepslegal experts said that the next step would entail evaluation of the assets of jil by the bidders. once that process is complete these companies will have to submit their bids. after the bids have been submitted the committee that comprises all stakeholders including home buyers and bankers will vote on which bidder to choose  said legal experts.the drafting criteria is likely to be finalised at the next coc meeting which is slated for the end of november sources said. the coc meeting slated for tuesday (november 20) has been postponed they said.home buyers had filed an application with the nclt stating that the voting rules were not fair and none of the resolutions were getting passed because of the mismatch. the application filed by nine buyers  associations had sought clarification on the  flawed voting rules .they had sought a clarification on the  question of law  that pertains to the procedure for determining the voting percentage among the committee of creditors. this is to ensure the  voice of the home buyers is not taken in a fragmented manner. homebuyers in their application to nclt had said the only logical way to calculate the percentage of the votes cast in favour or against a resolution is to take into account only those votes that are actually cast. abstained votes must not be taken into account for the purpose.earlier this month nine associations of jaypee homebuyers had written to the prime minister finance minister minister of road transport and highways and minister for housing and urban affairs asking them to direct public sector undertakings and lenders to express their interest as a resolution applicant under the provisions of the insolvency code. if a willing resolution applicant decides to provide its resolution plan the jil can be saved from the ultimate liquidation and the 28113 home buyers could be provided their homes and their life savings could be saved  the letter sent by their lawyers had said. our clients appeal to your office to direct public sector undertakings and lenders to express its interest as a resolution applicant under the provisions of the code and accord priority to the interest of home buyers setting a strong precedent which is currently lacking in indian real estate sector whereby thousands of home buyers are deceived by fraudulent misuse of funds by builder lobby heaving a sigh of relief  the letter reads.in october financial creditors of the company that include home buyers fixed deposit holders and banks rejected all proposals except the one to do with inviting expression of interest for resolution plans. they had also sought replacing anuj jain as the resolution professional. five out of the six proposals were rejected as aggregate vote share of 66 percent could not be achieved.as many as 53.3 percent voted for the approval of form g (invitation for expression of interest). the voting percentage required was 51 percent as per the filing to the bourses. authorised representative of home buyers had sought clarification if the form g shall be published in overseas newspaper as well. irp clarified that as per mandatory requirement form g shall be published in one english and one regional language newspaper in india and the same shall be uploaded on the ibbi website.the nclt had on august 10 2017 admitted idbi bank s plea to initiate insolvency proceedings against the jil for defaulting on rs 526-crore loan. while admitting the plea of idbi bank the nclt had appointed anuj jain as irp to manage the company s business.vandana.ramnani@nw18.com"</div></div>