<div><div><h2>Nordic market will always be top priority for us: HCL's Pankaj Tagra</h2></div><div>"neha alawadhimoneycontrol newshcl technologies recently completed ten years in the nordics a term commonly used to refer to a region in northern europe and the north atlantic. the nordics is now hcl's largest market in europe the company has said earlier.the region continues to be a focus area for the company said pankaj tagra evp nordic and dach head hcl technologies. he also spoke about gdpr and the focus areas for the it services firm in the region going forward.edited excerpts:q: what is the biggest change that you have seen in the last decade of hcl technologies in the nordic region a: i think when we had started in 2008 there was a big turnaround happening in the economy. lehman brothers had just collapsed and most of our customers were looking at how they can save cost and how they can keep the lights on without any increase in cost. so that time i think discussion was more towards centralisation consolidation cost efficiency.over a period now we are talking of a digital transformation. today when we are interacting with customers it is the reason why they are getting revenue for their organisation.we established one centre in 2009 today we have 12 centres in nordics.q: could you elaborate on the cultural differences you see in the region compared to india a: there are similarities and differences in indian and nordic cultures.for example nordic culture is a lot about people. it is a very trust-based society similar to india.there are differences as well. for example planning.  in india the way our education system is we really plan at the last moment and then we are very good in managing new things which come up uncertainty.whereas in nordics there was food security historically. for nine months the ground is covered with snow so people plan they also already know where they are going to spend their next christmas so they really plan ahead.so when we do projects with them it means that we have to plan in advance and when we set up online delivery centres here almost 70 percent of my workforce here is a local workers you know which is hired locally.i have 1600 employees in these 12 delivery centres we have 31 nationalities.through delivery centres in india we are able to act as a bridge we understand what customer needs here and that is the big competitive advantage.q: with gdpr (general data protection regulation) coming in do you see the outsourcing model the way you know it having an impact on the larger issue of data protection  a: i don't think gdpr is any way creating a hurdle in doing outsourcing. it is just sharing what are the new regulations which we need to follow to make sure that we can maintain data sanity as per the regulation.it has a short term and medium-term impact. short term impact is that organisations will need to tweak their processes which means we need to tweak their software which means business for us.so i feel gdpr is not impacting outsourcing negatively. but we need to follow the regulations we need to put our systems in place which are gdpr compliant.we were very well prepared about how we are going to give gdpr solution to our customers. there are lot of customers for whom we are implementing these projects and i see it as just another set of regulations which we need to follow.q: are there enough skilled people or do you face the same kind of problems as in us a: i don't think that there are enough skilled people because in all these four markets- sweden norway denmark and finland - their economies are doing exceptionally well.since their economy is doing well their unemployment rates are very low. in stockholm where i live it has a startup like environment and so finding people with required skills is a challenge. but we are fortunate that all these governments have comfortable work permit policies. besides (within four to six weeks of applying for a visa/work permit) we can get the right employee from across the world.q: so what are the business areas that you are focused on in nordics in coming year a: we are dominant in three or four areas in infrastructure services and application transformation services.the other ares where we see traction are digital transformation robotics and artificial intelligence and the acceptability of cloud.i think these are the three of four areas where we see lot of traction coming in and our focus is there.q: are you seeing any more deals on the lines of the volvo deal a:  i think we signed volvo deal around two-and-half-years ago. it is very well settled and integrated and after that we have signed many deals.the largest one which we signed was with nokia in june. we replaced 14 vendors both in the infrastructure and applications space and we are now going into a digital transformation that is under implementation.we also signed a deal with the state energy company of norway and also with falck emergency services in denmark. so we have signed few deals and i feel that there is a momentum."</div></div>