<div><div><h2>Is promoter stake sale in Zee for survival or growth?</h2></div><div>"neha davemoneycontrol research in an interesting development last week essel group -- the promoter of zee entertainment announced the intention to sell up to 50 percent of its equity to a strategic partner most likely a top global player. essel group has 41.6 percent stake in zee of which 59.4 percent shares are pledged as at the start of november. the promoter intends to complete the proposed transaction by march -april 2019 and has appointed goldman sachs as the investment banker and liontree as an international strategic advisor for the deal.the indian television industry is projected to reach a size of rs 118000 crore by fy23 a robust compounded average growth rate (cagr) of 12.6 percent over fy18-23 as per kpmg. zee being a leading national broadcaster will naturally be the key beneficiary of the growth. so what prompts the promoters to part exit a growing space while multiple reasons are speculated for zee s stake sale including the high share of pledged promoter shares we look at the changing landscape of the media and entertainment (m& e) industry that we think is the key motivation behind the essel group s decision to part exit.digital consumption at an inflection pointindia s m& e sector is at its digital tipping point. there has been a noticeable change in the consumption of media content with an increase in online video viewing. for instance the online video viewing audience in india was estimated to be around 225 million in fy18 and is projected to reach 550 million by fy23 as per kpmg. the explosive growth seen in digital access and consumption has been aided by the rapid penetration of smartphones. it is expected to accelerate with further penetration of fixed broadband and falling data cost fueled by reliance jio s disruptive entry. online video has disrupted linear tv in the usseveral users in the us have begun to consume video content directly on the internet through over-the-top (ott) platforms like netflix and amazon and cut off their cable connections. the same is reflected in netflix s subscriber base which has already reached 55 percent of all pay-tv homes subscribers in the us. the behaviour popularly known as cord cutting in the us has been driven by a favourable price differential between the subscription fees of cable and ott services besides availability of supporting network infrastructure and varied content provided by ott.despite negative operating cash flows netflix s eye-popping domestic and international subscriber growth has pushed its market capitalisation to record highs within shouting distance of media giants such as disney and comcast.will india go the us way we may not witness the same trend of cord cutting in india in the near term despite the increasing popularity of netflix and amazon. since the subscription-based video-on-demand (svod) services cost more than cable charges in india we don t see ott players as a replacement to tv broadcasters. both will co-exist for now.having said that the disruption caused by ott players is for real with the potential threat coming from incremental subscribers. for affluent customers second tv connection is moving to ott platforms. by 2020 india will have 4 million people who primarily depend on ott platforms for their content consumption as per ey and ficci.naturally this would have business repercussions for tv broadcasters. subscription revenue may hold up in the near term due to the price sensitivity of indian customers. however advertising revenue will be adversely impacted with tv likely to begin losing share to ott players in advertising revenue in the next 4-5 years.this has made tv broadcasters more agile. reacting to this  new wave  of digital growth tv broadcasters have launched their own ott platform. for instance zee launched zee5 which is a hybrid (subscription plus advertising revenue) ott platform in february 2018.  however given the intensity and quality of competition from global otts like amazon and netflix scaling up zee5 may not be easy. appreciating the business risks zee seems to have adopted a collaborative approach rather than being competitive by planning to get a strategic investor with complementary strengths.global interest in indian m& e the global m& e industry has seen a wave of collaboration and consolidation thanks to the threat posed by the five horsemen of the digital apocalypse: facebook apple amazon netflix and google to the traditional media businesses. by 2020 india is likely to become the second largest online video viewing market globally enticing many global players who are looking for regional partners to provide  global  offerings.technology media and telecom (tmt) convergence is soon to turn into a reality. zee will likely attract interest from varied investors across the value chain as business models are likely to merge eventually with boundaries between traditional and digital world blurring sooner than we imagine. for example to drive data consumption a telecom operator may look for an alliance with a media company. on the other hand a technology company (of the likes of facebook or twitter) with direct reach to the customer can help tv broadcaster to transform from b2b (business-to-business) to b2c (business-to-consumer) segment.with the rules of the game being redefined by the disruptors having a formidable balance sheet there is a potential downside risk to the business valuation of tv broadcasters. as the rearranging of media industry chessboard is under way this may be the most opportune time to make the first move for someone who has beaten the odds to create a successful tv business.follow @nehadave01for more research articles visit our moneycontrol research page"</div></div>