<div><div><h2>Look to invest in markets for a minimum of 2 years; 6 stocks to buy in 2018</h2></div><div>"foram parekhindiabulls venturesthe market has given a very good opportunity by showing steep correction from the recent highs it made in august. we feel that earnings recovery will continue in h2fy19 but at a slower pace. as a result nifty will make new highs till next diwali but will struggle to surpass the 12000 levels.one crucial factor which will act as a barrier in pushing the index above 12k is earnings growth. as the growth is evident in across segments be it the it or the fmcg sector on a conservative side even if we project a growth of 5 percent on the nifty eps it arrives at a target price of 11779 on nifty in the next 12 months.for mid &  small-cap space i feel it is the right time to catch the falling knife at the current juncture. as we have seen many companies across the sectors have posted very good results which gives us confidence that the growth in the micro-economy is on track.on the macro level we are witnessing good pmi numbers robust gdp numbers and crude is also settled at current levels; hence we feel macros are also trying to be in place and with recent corrections which we saw in markets gives investors a very good chance to make quick returns of at least 15 percent in the market.important hurdles to watch out forwell it looks like the index is certainly heading higher but there will be crucial hurdles which could derail the rally for the index at least in the short term.the lok sabha election is the sole factor for the indian markets which will keep the markets busy at least till may 2019. on the favorable outcome we will witness a lot of positive sentiments in the markets for the next five years.the reverse side will definitely dampen the mood of the market. there will be international factors like brexit and the us-china trade wars which will have a cascading impact on the indian markets.sectors to watchnbfc sector: it has taken an abnormal beating on fears of alm mismatch. will the fear percolate into reality needs to be watched.it sector: the rupee has made a new low of 73-74 to a dollar. we do not see inr appreciating steeply in the times to come neither do we feel it will steeply depreciate as we witnessed in the past few months. hence this is the new range of the rupee as a result the it sector will continue to be in limelight.psu banks: as psu banks did not participate in the rally since the past two  years they might just make a comeback supported by earnings recovery. also we anticipate the cannibalisation of market share from nbfcs to psu banks hence psus will be in focus till the next year.stocks to buyit makes sense for investors to hold on to good-quality stocks in the portfolio. the major correction in the market looks to be over and good-quality stocks are now showing signs of improvement.stocks like aditya birla fashion &  retail ltd l& t finance yes bank federal bank city union bank gnfc westlife development parag milk from the midcap sector should definitely be accumulated at current levels as all have very good growth story supported by good corporate governance.i would also like to advise that now is the time to build your portfolio as good growth story stocks are available at attractive valuations; hence one should keep a 2-year view and invest at current levels.as we know "correction is healthy" the market has given us very good opportunity to buy quality stocks at attractive prices and valuations. here are the five top ideas for the next one year:hdfc - target: rs 2011ashok leyland -  target: rs 146yes bank - target: rs 302reliance industries - target: rs 1600apollo hospitals - target: rs 1540ptc india - target: rs 105disclaimer: the author is fundamental analyst indiabulls ventures ltd. the views and investment tips expressed by investment expert on moneycontrol.com are her own and not that of the website or its management. moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.disclaimer: reliance industries ltd. is the sole beneficiary of independent media trust which controls network18 media &  investments ltd."</div></div>