<div><div><h2>Why is it important to be financially fit?</h2></div><div>"rahul jainedelweiss wealth managementmaintaining a healthy lifestyle by being physical fit is very important. similarly financial fitness is a matter worth focusing on as well. you can t always be piled up in debt. there may be something or other that you may want to achieve as you start planning your life ahead.by managing your money wisely you can handle your monthly expenses loans insurance premiums and any other expenses in a stress-free manner. to achieve them all you should be financially fit.let us understand why financial fitness is so important.importance of financial fitnesshelps you to achieve financial securitywhen it comes to your security and your family's the first thing that comes to mind is money. creating a fund for your future well in advance helps you to deal with any crisis as and when it comes.financial independencebecoming financially independent takes a lot of time. keeping a check on your cash inflows and outflows making decisions on what you should spend and cut down on and choosing saving and investment options are some of the factors that help you become financially independent. doing so can help you make your money work for you.creating goals for each stage of your lifepriorities change with age which means you should set your goals based on your age. these include goals like repaying education loan or home loan building an emergency fund setting up a retirement fund and so on. you should start figuring out ways to achieve these goals at a faster pace.creating a financial planfinancial planning is necessary for multiple reasons. some of them are:track expenses and eliminate unwanted spendingtrack all your expenses and figure out the problem area. there may be a number of things on which you are spending unnecessarily. exercise some restraint when it comes to these expenses and remember that every single dime is important.well-defined needs and goalsbuying a house in the next 5-years can be termed as a well-defined goal. to achieve this you must have your finances in place. saving up for it by managing all your essential expenses is what will make you achieve this goal.saving and investingwhen it comes to managing your finances saving and investing play key roles. making investment choices according to the goals you want to achieve is crucial. by creating a financial plan you can focus on your priorities and achieve them in an efficient way.achieving financial fitnesshow do you become financially fit  well you can start by inculcating a few of these healthy financial habits:studying your current financial situation and rectifying mistakes if anysaving 20-25 percent of your total incomeinvesting in various financial instruments; mutual funds are one of the best ways to gopaying all your bills on time to avoid any additional charges or late fees. this helps you maintain a healthy credit scorekeeping an eye on your debt. the sooner you repay it the lesser the interest you will have to pay for itcreating financial goalsbuilding an emergency fundplanning for your retirement right nowhealthy financial planning will help you to meet all your needs and inculcate these habits will help you reduce stress in the future.disclaimer: the author is head personal wealth advisory at edelweiss. the views and investment tips expressed by investment expert on moneycontrol.com are his own and not that of the website or its management. moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions."</div></div>