<div><div><h2>We are looking for partnerships to draw more foreign companies into Houston: Gabriella Rowe</h2></div><div>"neha alawadhimoneycontrol newsin the first half of 2018 india became houston texas' 10th largest trading partner. the list is led by mexico and china.with a population of 6.7 million people the houston metro s gdp in 2016 was $478 billion one fifth of india.to strengthen the relationship further houston mayor sylvester turner and the greater houston partnership were in delhi earlier this week  with the objective of boosting bilateral trade relations and joint investment initiatives.the houston delegation included top representatives seeking to strengthen ties with indian companies and learn about the latest developments in the country s business environment.in a conversation with moneycontrol gabriella rowe ceo station houston the hub for technology startups and entrepreneurs spoke about what the partnership plans to do and how the delegation is looking for partnerships to draw more foreign companies into the houston area.station houston is the largest tech acceleration hub in houston and is working in partnership with rice university to develop houston s midtown innovation district which will open in 2020.edited excerpts:q: what brings you to india at this time a: the ties between india and houston are really deep and have been around for a very long time. i focus on technology acceleration. what better country to collaborate with than india in many ways india has been leading the conversation for many years and has evolved from outsourced data services and development of 20 years ago to the developing and emerging technologies of today.we are incredibly excited that houston is now positioned to take advantage of the many relationships we have been building for many years.now that the innovation district (in houston) has been chosen funded and is under development we would have all the resources necessary to tell startups (in india) to come to houston and build their business there.q: what are the areas you are looking at  tech is one but what other areas a: it is technology in the broadest sense. so i think it s not it in the more traditional sense of technology. we're looking at how technology can improve the way we do everything we have done before. so it cuts across every sector.robotics is one example. there are few industries if any that will not be impacted by robotics in the next 10 years.at innovation district we are partnering with nasa to develop what our robotics labs are going to look like.q: are you planning to sign an agreement with any indian entity a: we are. but we'll have to see whether it will happen while we're here or it happens in the weeks following. but i am very very positive that it will happen especially after some of the meetings we've had. (after this interview the delegation signed a memorandum of understanding for with the indo-american chamber of commerce and indo american chamber of commerce of greater houston us in areas such as import-export investment climate business information and so on.)we had an incredible meeting with nasscom (national association of software and services companies). we are working on all of the same things.what we offer is that we understand the laws and regulation and operating under us jurisdiction which can be of help to startups who decide to come to houston.q: with nasscom or elsewhere in your conversations did the issue of visas  come up a: there is a perception of the visa issue and then there is the reality. the reality is we don't necessarily have the talent in the united states. that's why the h-1b programme was set up and that what we'll continue to use it for.it is a very common practice is many companies already in houston there are multiple different levels of the immigration conversation. we try and stay away from all the political pieces of it and focus on the how to accelerate our partnerships.q: but is the non-clarity on visas a hindrance or issue a: it depends on how you position it... but it has not been a hindrance to us today. there are many different ways to do things.sometimes that means hiring us-based assets... and sometimes the visa is accessed.there are other (visa) programmes as well (apart from h-1b). india is a large recipient of those visas. we haven't seen any particular difficulties.q: how different is the indian startup or tech scene compared to other countries like scotland or beijing that you've been to earlier a: i think the first thing that pops to mind is brain power and fluidity of relationships. much more so when i go to places like china.however the industries that we have in houston are a lot more global than anywhere else.q: what do you expect to take away from this visit to india a: its about building human relationships and how you follow up.q: in terms of investments what is the structure going to be like a: i think it's a range. in some countries the acceleration and ecosystmem they built is really government-funded. in other places like india it's a mix. so we have grown very accustomed to working in a variety of scenarios because making a transition to another country is incredibly difficult. houston is very inclusive.i am a born and bred new yorker but i moved to houston five years ago. new york is incredibly diverse on paper yet very unwelcoming for those coming from the outside. it is almost impossible to put in words how easy it is to assimilate in houston.investments are a pretty big sample. our large companies like chevron or shell are making their own investments. and its not venture capital its out of their own venture arms. some of our venture capital funds like mercury funds are setting aside money just to invest in foreign startups.our job is to help these companies look in the right places."</div></div>