<div><div><h2>Festive sales to help Mercedes-Benz end year on positive note in India</h2></div><div>"swaraj baggonkarmoneycontrol newsluxury car market leader mercedes-benz hopes to end the so-far disappointing year in india with low single-digit growth.multiple factors such as an up to four percent rise in prices in mercedes-benz cars an increase in fuel prices tightened credit availability increased supply of used luxury cars and poorly performing stock markets took a toll on the demand for new luxury cars.speaking to moneycontrol michael jopp vice president - marketing and sales mercedes-benz india said a low single-digit growth for the year is expected given a good festive season growth in sales. the festive season was good but it could have been better. the first nine months there was a fall in volumes but the fourth quarter we should see a growth and therefore the year should close on a positive note for us  said jopp.mercedes-benz retained the leadership title during the january-september period but saw its sales fall to 11789 units a dip of 0.6 percent from 11869 units clocked in the same period last year.closing 2018 with the last launch of the year mercedes introduced the third generation of the cls coupe at rs 84.7 lakh (ex-showroom). the company launched 12 models during the year.the pune-based company had to increase prices by four percent in september to offset the strong depreciation of the indian currency. while the company has refrained from making any further increase jopp hinted there could be another round of increase. we had to increase our prices during the year because of the depreciation of rupee. while the rupee has stabilized a bit we could see another round of increase in prices but not in december  added jopp.four of mercedes-benz models sold in india currently come powered with a bharat stage vi (bs-vi) grade engine. before the company moves its entire portfolio to bs-vi next year there is an expectation of increased pre-buying at the retail level. there is always a stronger demand for those cars which at the end of their lifecycle because of their lower costs. similarly there will be demand for bs-iv models next year as consumers would want to avoid paying extra for the bs-vi version of the same models  added jopp.because of the pre-buying overall volumes in 2019 would be much better than the current year which would be followed by a dip demand in 2020 because of the new rates under bs-vi.in comparison bmw the second largest luxury car maker has had better growth during the january-september period. the german giant clocked a growth of 11 percent during the period to 7915 units.the mercedes-benz cls launched today comes powered by a  four-cylinder bs vi engine that churns out 180 kw which allows the car to attain 100 km/h from standstill in just 6.4 seconds. top speed of the coupe has been limited to 250 km per hour.s"</div></div>