<div><div><h2>Moneycontrol announces the first edition of 'Wealth Creator Awards'</h2></div><div>"moneycontrol newsmoneycontrol india s no 1 financial and business media platform is set to host the first edition of the  wealth creator awards . finance minister arun jaitley will address the audience virtually while suresh prabhu minister of commerce &  industry and civil aviation will be the chief guest.the event will take place on november 16 at taj land s end mumbai.the wealth creator awards has been conceptualised with the aim of honouring companies people and leaders behind india s robust financial services sector which has helped it achieve great heights and even kept the country on its feet during times of crises.moneycontrol has taken it upon itself to host a momentous celebration to acknowledge financial powerhouses that have helped india become an economically-stable nation. what sets the wealth creator awards apart is the property s holistic approach that takes into consideration tangible performance-oriented achievements like claims settlement ratio and gross insurance premium as well as the humane aspects of each nominee.some of the categories for the wealth creator awards 2018 include best bank of the year best broking firm of the year and social impact investment firm of the year. the winners were selected during a grand jury round that was held at 25 south: bespoke homes by the bay - a project by the wadhwa group and hubtown on august 18 2018.the jury panel comprised deepak parekh chairman hdfc; rajnish kumar chairman sbi; rashesh shah chairman and ceo edelweiss capital; ramesh damani member bse; a balasubramanian ceo birla sun life mutual fund; bhargav dasgupta ceo icici lombard; tarun davda partner and managing director matrix partners; upasana taku founder mobikwik; and santosh nair managing editor moneycontrol.for the first edition of the awards kpmg is the process advisor and evaluator while acquist marketing &  information solutions is the research partner. moneycontrol s internal team of experts devised the award categories and drew up the selection criteria.setting the tone for the evening will be a one-on-one session between the chief guest suresh prabhu and gaurav choudhury deputy executive editor moneycontrol. the topic of the discussion:  long term wealth creation strategy in india through investment into high-quality businesses. besides the felicitation ceremony there will be a panel discussion on the  the nbfc crisis and its implications for financial markets  moderated by ravi krishnan deputy executive editor moneycontrol.commenting on the announcement of this award property  manish maheshwari ceo network18 digital said  as india s economy takes bold strides marching confidently into a new world so does its industries and services across the board. crucial however to the overall health of the economy is its financial sector which contributes over 6% to the gdp. the financial sector forms the economy s backbone when it comes to creating wealth for not only the country but also its citizens. through the wealth creator awards we applaud the world of finance and the people who make india the most financially stable economy to invest in. we strongly believe that strong financial fundamental is critical for a diverse economy like india to grow into a superpower. commenting on the announcement of the wealth creator awards gautam shelar business head moneycontrol said:  with a market of over 1.2 billion people the opportunities of india as a great investment destination and a financial powerhouse isn t lost on anyone in the biggest global platforms. the respect it got in the recently-concluded 49th davos summit is just a glimpse of the kind of authority that india as an economic superpower is likely to hold in the future. creating that powerhouse with a rock solid base will mostly be thanks to its sound fiscal policies and financial structures. it is with that in mind moneycontrol through the wealth creator awards aims to felicitate these pole bearers of financial services that have often set global best standards and forced the biggest and the strongest around the world to sit up and take note of india. "</div></div>