<div><div><h2>Filmmakers experiment with sci-fi films amid tight budgets, as the genre gathers momentum in India</h2></div><div>"maryam farooquimoneycontrol newsmarvel cinematic universe (mcu) considers india as an important market. and why not. after all the indian fanbase for marvel movies is growing with every new film. similarly offerings from the dc extended universe (dceu) are being welcomed with open arms in india. the star wars franchise may not be as popular as marvel and dceu ventures but they sure do have a fan following here. and this validates the fact that there are many takers for scientific fiction films in india. however when it comes to locally producing such films filmmakers shy away. one reason for this is exorbitant budgets for films belonging to this genre. while hollywood s most expensive film (pirates of the caribbean: on stranger tides) costs approximately rs 2831 crore india has till now touched an estimated budget of rs 534 crore (2.0). not many studios or filmmakers are keen on taking such big risks. for hollywood the international markets bring in majority of the box office collections. hence they are able to recoup their investments and earn profits as well. as for bollywood it is still trying to gain a foothold in the overseas markets which makes such ventures a bigger risk. the stark difference in the budget also means less expenditure on visual effects which are an integral part of any sci-fi movie. in the latest mcu offering avengers infinity war there were as many as 2680 vfx shots. the indian film which boasts of grand visual effects 2.0 has 1000 vfx shots. the big difference in vfx shots also explains the difference in the quality of sci-fi films from india and hollywood. for a long time full-fledged sci-fi films in india were not present but the scenario is changing. filmmakers are getting comfortable with technology. studios are ready to take the risk of investing big bucks. and movie-goers are appreciating these efforts which is resulting in strong box office numbers. take the example of the 2010 enthiran (robot in hindi). the film with a budget of rs 132 crore did a business of around rs 290 crore worldwide. its performance encouraged film-makers and directors to pursue the sci-fi genre.  india also experimented with the extra-terrestrial subject in the film koi mil gaya in 2003 which was well received by the audience. later the country got its first superhero in the form of krrish a sequel in the koi mil gaya franchise. krrish was a shot in the arm for the scientific fiction genre. meanwhile tamil cinema shifted focus from superheroes and delivered india s first space film  tik tik tik. the makers took the daunting task of finishing 85 minutes of graphics and visual effects in five months and they achieved it successfully. however the mixed reactions from the audiences and critics together highlighted that the film was missing good writing.this is another factor that seems to be putting off cinephiles   weak storylines. india is a diverse nation and filmmakers should try to achieve a balance between mass appeal and a strong script instead of diluting it to appeal to a larger audience. indian film-makers generally miss this point while making films in the sci-fi genre. a film-maker must remember that the audience can t be fooled and they give the verdict when a film delivers a mediocre storyline. when that happens even big stars can t save the day. love story 2050 starring priyanka chopra and shah rukh khan-starrer ra.one both tanked at the box office. while matching up to hollywood standards seems to be a difficult task for indian films filmmakers are not losing hope. they are in fact brushing up their skills and pushing their limits especially for the scientific-fiction genre. what s helping is the growth of different revenue streams for the film business. cable and satellite rights and digital rights are helping in recouping investments which makes the big projects less risky. soon sci-fi movie buffs will witness films like 2.0 (sequel of enthiran) which will hit theatres on november 29 and anurag kashyap s cargo and another space film chanda mama door ke. "</div></div>