<div><div><h2>SUVs, high-performance cars to light up Mahindra s electric portfolio in 2 years</h2></div><div>"swaraj baggonkarmoneycontrol newstwo new suvs and an equal number of high-performance cars are some of the launches the mahindra group plans in the electric vehicle space over the next two years in india and overseas.with a new research and development facility due to come near bengaluru airport mahindra group has earmarked more than rs 500 crore investments in product and capacity development.in addition to variants such as cargo of the treo fully electric three-wheeler launched today also planned are the electric version of the kuv100 by the middle of next year. this will be followed by the electric version of the codenamed s201 compact suv in the first half of the calendar year 2020.the petrol-powered version of the s201 will be launched in the final quarter of this financial year. the s201 will be positioned between the kuv100 and tuv300.the electric kuv which will be priced below rs 10 lakh will perhaps have the same powertrain as the everito   a 30kw motor that has a driving range of 140kms on a full charge. the electric version of s201 will have a 380-volt battery with a driving range of 250 km on a full charge confirmed the m& m management.this will be followed by a high-performance vehicle codenamed s210 which will be based on the mesma platform showcased by mahindra &  mahindra at the auto expo earlier this year. this modular architecture packs the lithium-ion battery pack strapped onto the floor. the effective driving range of this platform can more than 390 km on a full charge.the company has already announced the launch of high-performance luxury vehicles under the pininfarina brand that will debut in end 2020. only 125 units of these developed in europe will be made and sold for $2 million apiece.the company is also working on other performance vehicles priced in the range of $250000-$350000 and will be launched globally. the company is also exploring the price position of $100000 for such vehicles.pawan goenka managing director m& m said  if we see that there is a market for such type of high-performance vehicles in india then we will explore their launch here as well. but at present there is no demand for them .the first of its kind electric vehicle technology manufacturing facility in karnataka was set up at a cost of rs 100 crore. the facility will manufacture battery packs power electronics and motor assembly. m& m will raise the capacity of the plant from 5000 to 25000 units per annum over the next 18 months.the factory saw its first electric product roll out today and was fully developed and conceptualized at this facility. branded as treo the battery-powered three-wheelers available in four variants was launched today at a starting price of rs 1.36 lakh (ex-showroom bengaluru).with a certified range of 170 kms on a full charge the treo is india s first lithium-ion battery powered three-wheeler. mahindra electric has a peak capacity to make 2000 treos a month. fleet operators from delhi bengaluru chennai and hyderabad have approached the company for supplies."</div></div>