<div><div><h2>In pics: These SUVs could sizzle Indian roads in 2019</h2></div><div>" nissan kicks | to be launched in january 2019 nissan kicks will compete against the segment best-seller hyundai creta mahindra scorpio and renault captur. while official details are yet to be out the kicks is expected to get 1.5 litre diesel and 1.5 petrol engine developing 110bhp and 106 bhp of peak power. expect starting price to be at just below rs 10 lakh. (image source: nissan) tata harrier | the harrier will signal tata motors  revival in the suv space after a gap of several years. the premium suv will be launch in january. it is based on the land rover platform and tweaked to india conditions. it will be powered a fiat-developed 2.0 litre diesel engine. expect starting price to between rs 13-15 lakh. (image source: tata motors) hyundai kona electric | hyundai will kick-start its electric campaign with the launch of kona in the second half of next year. the stylish suv will be fully imported at first. with a driving range of 482 kms and a maximum speed of 167km/hr the kona electric will take nine hours to charge fully. expect prices to be around rs 25 lakh. (image source: hyundai)mahindra e-kuv mahindra kuv 100 | suv-specialist mahindra &  mahindra will launch its third battery-powered passenger vehicle in the middle of next year. this will be the electric version of the kuv 100. while specific details are awaited the vehicle is expected to have a range of 150-180 kms and would take around 3-4 hours of charging time. expect prices to be under rs 10 lakh. (image source: mahindra) kia sp concept | kia motors the sister concern of hyundai motor company will make its debut in india with an suv based on the sp concept. kia has showcased the concept vehicle in global auto shows. this suv will be positioned as a premium vehicle and is expected to be priced at around rs 15 lakh. (image source: kia) mg motors suv | saic-backed british car brand mg motor will also make its debut next year with an suv that is currently under development. this c-segment suv will be based on one of the existing platforms saic vehicles and will sport the same fiat developed 2.0 litre engine. expect prices to start at rs 15 lakh. (image source: saic) tivoli-based suv | mahindra will launch the compact suv codenamed s201 in the final quarter of fy19. the model will rival the maruti suzuki vitara brezza and tata nezon. a 1.5 litre 4-cylinder diesel engine producing 123 bhp and a 1.2 litre petrol engine will power the suv. expect it to sell starting rs 7.5 lakh. (image source: ssangyong)  hyundai carlino; qxi | hyundai s most potent launch since the last few years will be the all-new compact suv codenamed qxi. this new suv will sit below the creta and compete against the brezza and mahindra s201. the car is undergoing tests in korea. its launch is scheduled for april 2019. prices are expected to start at rs 7 lakh. (image source: hyundai) new renault duster | renault is in no mood to keep quiet after having a forgettable year so far. besides a new people-carrier the french carmaker will debut an updated duster which will boast of redone exterior styling and added interior features. powertrains are expected to remain the same. expect prices at be around rs 8-9 lakh. (image source: renault) datsun cross | nissan-owned low-cost brand datsun will take the covers off the cross suv (which is essentially a cross between a hatchback and suv). the suv will be a sub-four meter compact suv and will be powered by a 1 litre petrol engine. datsun will likely position the suv with an aggressive price tag and would compete against the mahindra kuv100. expect prices to start below rs 6 lakh. (image source: datsun) jeep compass | fiat chrysler automobiles will give a major fillip to compass its flagship suv in the second part of next year. the compass will get an automatic version with a new 2.0 litre diesel engine. the company already sells a petrol variant with an automatic gearbox. expect the diesel automatic to be priced above rs 20 lakh. (image source: fiat chrysler automobilesauto) "</div></div>