<div><div><h2>Maruti, United Spirits, Jet Airways, HUL, Britannia to get astrological support for the week: Satish Gupta</h2></div><div>"satish guptaastrostocktips.inweekly planetary position: during the week moon will be transiting in pisces aries and taurus. lord sun jupiter and mercury in scorpio mars in aquarius. lord saturn in sagittarius. venus in libra. lord ketu in capricorn. lord rahu in cancer. pluto in sagittarius. neptune in aquarius and uranus in aries.planet mercury which controls our mind (buddhi) is transiting in scorpio and is in retrograde position from november 17 2018 to december 7 2018. be cautious as one is likely to take wrong decisions resulting in financial losses depending on its position in individual horoscope.technical analysts/researchers can be worst affected (since planet mercury is significator of this profession). persons with scorpio gemini virgo and taurus ascendant/rashi need to be extra vigilant.following sectors will be receiving astrological support:food processing: jubilant food nestle britannia varun beverages vadilal industries etc. this sector was predicted last week also and during the week   britannia milk food varun beverages jubilant food and vadilal industries moved up by 4-13 percent.personal care: hind unilever marico godrej consumer emami dabur etc. this sector was predicted last week also &  during the week   hul godrej consumer and emami shot up by 3.8   10 percent.aviation: interglobe aviation jet airways spicejet etc.liquor: united spirits united breweries radico khaitan jagatjit industries globus spirit etc. this sector was predicted last week too and uslubl globus spirit radico khaitan and jagatjit industries moved up by 5-15 percent.auto: maruti ashok leyland tvs motor eicher motors escorts etc.pharma sector will continue to receive strong astrological support.predicting bullish sectors of current samvat 2075every year with commencement of new samvat (hindu new year) astrologically based on planetary position certain new sectors start getting strong astrological support and start outperforming while some others sectors which were performing earlier start underperforming. some sectors/stock remains laggard. based on our experience of over 20 years as financial astrologer stocks of astrological supported sectors outperform resulting in exorbitant gains irrespective of market behaviour either bull market or bear market.every year we release sectors of new samvat in the month of march/april when new samvat starts. this time new samvat started from march 18 2018.we firmly believe that these special astrological positions present very unique opportunities to investors and traders both. this opportunity if utilized properly can safeguard your existing portfolio and simultaneously optimize your future investments and trading also. successful investing and trading is all about good timing only.needless to mention our innumerable past predictions where most stocks from the sectors of samvat gave exorbitant returns and certain stocks appreciated by over 500 percent.after gap of many years sugar sector started getting astrological support in the year 2015 and many stocks - dwarikesh sugar mawana sugar uppar ganges uttam sugar etc shot up by 500   900 percent.in the year 2016 dyes/chemicals sector got astrological support and stocks like bhageria industries thirumalai chemicals sudarshan chemicals etc were up by 490- 650 percent.during last samvat 2074 (2017-2018) among other sectors - food processing sector was predicted which received strong astrological support. many stocks from this sector appreciated exorbitantly.sectors which get very strong astrological support are not normally affected by downfall in the market.sectors which get strong astrological support also start getting favourable news along with all kind of positive support by regulatory authorities in that industry resulting in strong growth and super positive results. most of problems also start resolving.disclaimer: the views and investment tips expressed by investment experts on moneycontrol.com are their own and not that of the website or its management. moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions. "</div></div>