<div><div><h2>Avoid FMCG, bet on banks, IT; top 10 stocks to buy for next 12 months</h2></div><div>"rajiv ranjan singhwe find ourselves in an optimistic camp in terms of our expectations for the next 12 month or for samvat 2075. after the recent turmoil in financial markets it is easy to be pessimistic.the macro outlook for india has certainly deteriorated somewhat compared to six months back but the overall outlook shows promise and gives us a reason for optimism.growth in india is accelerating the oecd leading indicator points to strong growth ahead. more importantly the investment cycle in india is turning. in q2fy 2018-19 gross fixed capital formation grew by 10 percent yoy.capacity utilisation is inching upwards which should boost growth. it is also due to high-frequency indicators like commercial vehicles sales growth cement production and air traffic growth.many investors have been rattled by the move in currency markets. the last time we had turmoil in currency markets was during the  taper tantrum  in 2013. india has made substantial progress since the taper tantrum with the fiscal deficit declining from 4.5 percent to 3.5 percent.similarly the current account deficit has declined substantially from 5.08 percent of the gdp in october-december quarter 2012 to 2.4 percent of gdp in april- june 2018.this indicates that the indian economy is in a far better position to withstand the headwinds from the currency markets.however because of the higher price for imports especially crude oil inflation is likely to be higher by 60 to 75 bps. we believe that the rbi is likely to increase rates by 50 bps over the next 12 months. this is manageable and unlikely to derail the growth story.for indian asset markets the major trigger will be the upcoming general elections. we expect some nervousness in markets ahead of the elections.the results of the state elections next month will set the tone though we wouldn t extrapolate the results to general elections as the indian electorate can vote differently in state elections and general elections even when held close to each other.our expectation is that a reform-oriented stable coalition is likely to assume power. if so a relief rally can take markets forward.on account of the recent correction stocks are attractive in our view we are happy to recommend them compared to other asset classes.we prefer a cyclical bias in investment stance for the next 12 months. we would prefer to invest in banks capital goods autos it and healthcare sectors. sector to avoid would be fmcg both for its high valuation as well as defensive nature.some stocks we like are punjab national bank laxmi vilas bank yes bank larsen and toubro sandhar technologies v-mart mirza international bharat electronics new india assurance and bajaj electricals.the author is ceo of karvy stock broking. disclaimer: the views and investment tips expressed by investment expert on moneycontrol.com are his own and not that of the website or its management. moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions."</div></div>