<div><div><h2>Federal Bank expects retail loan book growth at 28-30%; corporate at 20-22%</h2></div><div>"reacting to the outcome of the recent reserve bank of india (rbi) board meet shyam srinivasan managing director and chief executive officer (ceo) of federal bank said that the decisions take by the board will only delay the problems however he said "if it helps the customer we should consider it". what is invoked is already being exercised. so i don t know whether something dramatically different will come other than giving it one more quarter or one half of a year extension. all this only masks the problem. so i would look out for what it is  he said.the rbi board on november 21 decided to constitute an expert committee to examine the economic capital framework (ecf) the membership and terms of reference of which will be jointly determined by the government of india and the central bank.with regard to banks under prompt corrective action (pca) it was decided that the matter will be examined by the board for financial supervision (bfs) of rbi.the board has advised the central bank to consider a loan restructuring scheme for small and medium enterprises (sme) for loans up to rs 25 crore.the board while deciding to retain the capital to risky asset ratio (crar) at 9 percent agreed to extend the transition period for implementing the last tranche of 0.625 percent under the capital conservation buffer (ccb) by one year (up to march 31 2020). our credit book across the country is about rs 100000 crore. if you take the corporate or wholesale and put the rs 25 crore slice that is about rs 25000-30000 crore so rs 70000 crore of our book is at or below rs 25 crore of exposure  retail agri sme mid-market business banking commercial banking all put together  he said.on the asset quality for micro and the sme segment srinivasan said  many quarters it has been quite consistent. we haven t seen any degradation. yes there have been these goods and services tax (gst) related delayed payment opportunity that came up but that ends in the december quarter. we haven t seen any pick up. our slippages by segment in fact the sme and the commercial banking slippages have been trending down barring q2 which saw the pick up on account of the kerala floods."source: cnbc-tv18"</div></div>