<div><div><h2>Non-Banking Housing Finance Lenders Under Liquidity Stress: Top Official</h2></div><div>new delhi: new delhi: a top government official on monday said the nation's non-banking housing finance companies were facing liquidity stress in comments that are likely to put more pressure on the central bank to ease its policy towards the sector. the intervention by corporate affairs secretary injeti srinivas came after finance minister arun jaitley and other government officials raised the issue of a liquidity crunch at a meeting with reserve bank of india's (rbi) governor urjit patel and other regulators last week. the government has asked the rbi for a dedicated liquidity window for these lenders similar to the one allowed for the entire financial sector during the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. but so far the central bank has not agreed to the request as it fears that such an accommodation to those who haven't been prudent with their lending will only encourage reckless behaviour. currently the shadow banking sector comprising around 11400 firms with a combined balance-sheet worth over rs 22 lakh crore ($301.26 billion) face central bank's restrictions on borrowings from banks keeping provisions for the safety of depositors. the government and the rbi are currently at loggerheads over a series of issues including control of its reserves its power over the payments system and monetary policy. "the segment of housing finance within the nbfc (non banking finance companies) sector is facing stress of liquidity" srinivas told reporters on monday adding the government was trying to address the issue. the sector needs to reassess how it operates he said noting there was a need to adopt a sustainable model which could minimize the mismatch between their borrowing and lending. a s tring of defaults at one major nbfc infrastructure leasing and financial service ltd (il&fs)  have triggered sharp falls in stock and debt markets in recent weeks amid fears of contagion within the rest of the country's financial sector. srinivas' comments triggered falls in housing finance lenders indiabulls housing finance  dewan housing finance corporation and pnb housing finance which were all down between 3 per cent and 8 per cent on monday. srinivas declined to comment when specifically asked about these companies. securities analysts and economists said while the central bank was looking for an improvement in governance of lenders through various restrictions the government was working on a piece meal approach to address short term liquidity needs. "there seems to be a difference of opinion between the rbi and the government about the solution strategy" said nr bhanumurthy an economist at the national institute of public finance and policy a delhi-based think-tank. ($1 = 73.0275 indian rupees)</div></div>