<div><div><h2>How To Avail 250-Rupees Discount On Ola Ride Through BHIM SBI Pay</h2></div><div>sbi or state bank of india has announced a discount of up to rs 250 on booking of an ola cab ride in a limited-period scheme. the offer sbi said on microblogging website twitter is valid till december 15 2018. in order to avail the discount the user is required to book a trip with ride-hailing company ola's mobile app and make the payment using upi or unified payments interface-based payments system bhim sbi pay. the discount offer is available in select cities including mumbai and pune according to sbi. types of discounts available under sbi-ola scheme the user can avail a discount of rs 50 each on first three ola rides. this offer is applicable on micro mini and prime series of cabs according to sbi. the user can avail this offer by using coupon code "upi50" sbi noted. under the scheme the user can avail a discount up to rs 150 on his/her first ola rental booking using coupon code "rentupi50" it added. the user can also avail a discount up to rs 250 on the first outstation ride. to avail this offer the user is required to enter coupon code "osupi250" according to sbi. how to avail sbi-ola offer the user is required to use the "bhim sbi pay" option to make a payment against a cab ride on ola's mobile app. state bank of india has mentioned on its website the following steps for users to avail the offer: 1. open mobile app ola and select any of the micro mini or prime categories of cabs to proceed. 2. tap on "ride now" and enter drop location 3. click on the "apply coupon" button enter the coupon code ("upi50" "rentupi50" or "osupi250") for upi-based payment and tap on "apply". after this the coupon code is applied. 4. prior to booking select "add existing upi id" under the payment option to make the payment. 5. add the upi id and click on "authenticate". 6. once authenticated select "upi id" as the payment option. 7. click on "confirm booking" to book the ride. locations the offer is applicable in 19 cities in gujarat madhya pradesh and maharashtra. in gujarat the discount is available in ahmedabad vadodara rajkot surat bhavnagar and jamnagar. in maharashtra it is available in ahmednagar amravati kohlapur mumbai solapur aurangabad nagpur nashik and pune and in madhya pradesh the offer can be availed in bhopal indore jabalpur and ujjain according to sbi.</div></div>