<div><div><h2>Reliance Jio Announces JioPhone 2 Flash Sale On Thursday, Details Here</h2></div><div>reliance jio has announced a flash sale of jiophone 2 its 4g-enabled feature phone. the flash sale of jiophone 2 will begin at 12:00 noon on october 11 said reliance jio - the provider of telecom services under brand jio - on microblogging site twitter. reliance jio also announced a cashback of rs 200 on purchase of jiophone 2 device in the sale using digital wallet paytm. thursday's flash sale of jiophone 2 marks the sixth such sale since the launch of jiophone 2 in august. 1. a user is required to log on to reliance jio's website - jio.com - and select jiophone2. 2. after this the user is required to enter his or her pin code and proceed to check out. the user is required to provide personal details such as name email id and mobile number. 3. the user may proceed making the payment after selecting the desired payment option. 4. once the payment of rs. 2999 is made by the user an order confirmation notification is issued through email or sms. reliance jio prepaid recharge plans for jiophone users currently reliance jio offers three prepaid recharge packs for jiophone users. these recharge packs are priced at rs 49 rs. 99 and rs. 153. rs 49 jiophone plan reliance jio's most inexpensive plan for jiophone is priced at rs 49. this plan comes with a total high speed data benefit of 1 gb for a validity period of 28 days. (reliance jio's rs 49 jiophone plan comes with a validity period of 28 days) while voice calls are free just like all jio plans this pack allows subscribers to send 50 smses free of cost during the validity period according to the jio website. rs 99 jiophone plan among other benefits the rs 99 plan comes with benefits such as 0.5 gb data per day for a validity period of 28 days (total high speed data benefit of 14 gbs) according to reliance jio. that means a subscriber gets 0.5 gb of mobile data at high speed every day during the validity period of this jiophone plan. (reliance jio's rs 99 jiophone plan offers 14 gbs of mobile data at high speed) other benefits include free voice calls and 300 smses for the entire validity period. rs 153 jiophone plan reliance jio's jiophone plan priced at rs 153 provides the subscriber 42 gbs of high speed data with a daily limit of 1.5 gbs among other benefits. this plan comes with a validity period of 28 days. (reliance jio's jiophone plan priced at rs 153 offers 1.5 gbs of data at high speed every day for the entire validity period of 28 days) in all three plans data continues at a revised speed of 64 kbps once the user exhausts the respective limits on quantity of high speed data allowed according to the jio website.</div></div>