<div><div><h2>Supreme Court Allows ArcelorMittal, NuMetal To Bid For Essar Steel</h2></div><div>the supreme court on thursday allowed arcelormittal and numetal to take part in the bidding process for takeover of debt-ridden essar steel. the top court gave both the companies two weeks to clear their non-performing assets (npas) or bad loans. essar is being sold as part of an auction process under the insolvency and bankruptcy code. essar steel lenders have initiated insolvency proceedings for recovery of dues worth around rs. 49000 crore. the court considered the plea of committee of creditors against liquidation of essar steel granting a fresh opportunity to both the firms. the bench comprising justice r f nariman and justice indu malhotra took note of the plea of committee of creditors that it does not want liquidation of essar steel. the committee would decide on the bidding within eight weeks of payment of bad loans by the two companies the bench said. the bench also said that 66 per cent of committee of creditors would have to select the bid otherwise essar steel would go into liquidation . the national company law appellate tribunal (nclat) had earlier ruled that numetal's second bid for essar steel was eligible but the same by arcelormittal would qualify only if it cleared the dues worth rs 7000 crore of the two firms it was previously associated with. russia's vtb bank-promoted firm numetal and steel and mining major arcelormittal had challenged the nclat's order on the eligibility of the latter to bid for essar steel. steel and mining major arcelormittal has to make a payment of around rs 7000 crore to take part in the bidding process. numetal and steel tycoon lakshmi mittal-led arcelormittal had in february submitted separate bids to take over essar steel. the committee of creditors (coc) however disqualified both bids saying their promoters were tied to companies that were loan defaulters and so ineligible under section 29a of the ibc act. (with agency inputs)</div></div>