<div><div><h2>Reliance Jio Announces JioPhone 2 Flash Sale, Details Here</h2></div><div>reliance jio has announced another instalment of flash sale for jiophone 2 its 4g-enabled feature phone device. the flash sale of jiophone 2 - which is an upgraded version of its existing feature phone called jiophone - will begin at 12:00 pm on thursday october 25 the telecom company said on its website - jio.com. the jiophone 2 will be available at rs 2999 under the upcoming flash sale reliance jio mentioned on its website. reliance jio  the telecom arm of the reliance industries conglomerate has also announced a cashback of rs 200 on purchase of jiophone 2 in the sale using digital wallet paytm. 1. thursday would mark the seventh flash sale of jiophone 2 since the launch of the device in august this year. 2. how to participate in jiophone 2 flash sale : according to reliance jio the jiophone 2 can be ordered under the flash sale from the company's website jio.com or mobile app myjio. the telecom major has prescribed the following steps for placing an order of the jiophone 2 device through website jio.com or mobile app myjio: 3. mobile apps on jiophone 2: mobile apps such as myjio jiomusic jiotv jiocinema jiovideocall and jiopay "come preloaded" on the jiophone 2 device according to the telecom company. the customer can also download additional mobile apps according to jio. (also read: whatsapp available on jiophone ) 4. order cancellation : cancellation of an order placed through the flash sale will not be allowed according to the jio website. "as the product ordered is sold via flash sales cancellation of order will not be allowed" the company noted. 5. jiophone recharge packs : currently reliance jio provides three prepaid recharge packs for the jiophone devices. these are priced at rs 49 rs 99 and rs 153. rs 49 jiophone plan reliance jio's most inexpensive plan for jiophone is priced at rs 49. this plan comes with a total high speed data benefit of 1 gb for a validity period of 28 days. (the recharge pack priced at rs 49 comes with a validity period of 28 days) while voice calls are free just like all jio plans this pack allows subscribers to send 50 smses free of cost during the validity period according to the jio website. rs 99 jiophone plan among other benefits the rs 99 plan comes with benefits such as 0.5 gb data per day for a validity period of 28 days (total high speed data benefit of 14 gbs) according to reliance jio. that means a subscriber gets 0.5 gb of mobile data at high speed every day during the validity period of this jiophone plan. (reliance jio's rs 99 jiophone plan offers 14 gbs of mobile data at high speed) other benefits include free voice calls and 300 smses for the entire validity period. rs 153 jiophone plan reliance jio's jiophone plan priced at rs 153 provides the subscriber 42 gbs of high speed data with a daily limit of 1.5 gbs among other benefits. this plan comes with a validity period of 28 days. (the jiophone recharge pack priced at rs 153 comes with 1.5 gbs of data at high speed every day for the validity period of 28 days) in all three plans data continues at a revised speed of 64 kbps once the user exhausts the respective limits on quantity of high speed data allowed according to jio.</div></div>