<div><div><h2>Disney profit boosted by fans flocking to parks, movies</h2></div><div>(reuters) - walt disney co (dis.n) results beat wall street estimates on thursday thanks to summer crowds that swarmed into its theme parks and filled theatres showing marvel movie  ant-man and the wasp.  the family entertainment company also revealed plans for a new  star wars  video series for its forthcoming streaming service that it has named disney+ and plans to launch late next year aiming to make up for the continuing loss of subscribers from espn and other cable networks. disney is trying to transform itself into a broad-based digital entertainment company as audiences move to netflix inc (nflx.o) alphabet inc s (googl.o) youtube and other digital options. it is on the verge of gaining new film and television properties in a $71.3 billion purchase of assets from twenty-first century fox inc (foxa.o). overall revenue in the quarter rose 12 percent to $14.3 billion above analysts' average estimate of $13.73 billion. net income climbed 33 percent to $2.3 billion and adjusted earnings per share of $1.48 for beat analysts' consensus of $1.34 according to ibes data from refinitiv. (graphic: tmsnrt.rs/2pgi3eg) shares of disney which have gained nearly 8 percent this year rose 1.7 percent in after-hours trading to $118. chairman and chief executive bob iger announced here that disney's lucasfilm is developing a second star wars live-action series for disney+ a prequel to "rogue one" starring diego luna. the company also is working on a live-action marvel series for the new service about thor s devious brother loki starring tom hiddleston. iger said disney will give a first look at the disney+ app and its programming at an investor conference in april. the ceo also was upbeat about the prospects for hulu an on-demand and live tv service. disney will own 60 percent of the streaming service after the fox purchase and iger told cnbc that disney would be interested in buying the remaining stakes from comcast corp (cmcsa.o) and at&t inc (t.n) if they were willing to sell. iger said he saw  an opportunity to increase investment in hulu notably on the programming side  and he believed there was room to raise prices.for the just-ended quarter the media networks unit disney s largest reported a 4 percent year-over-year rise in operating income of $1.5 billion as broadcaster abc saw higher program sales and fees from channel distributors. the espn cable network continued to shed subscribers the company said as viewing moves to digital platforms. to counter that ongoing shift disney this year released a streaming service called espn+ with live college sports documentaries and other programming that does not run on television. disney+ by comparison will include movies and tv shows aimed at family audiences and hulu will reach broader with edgier programming for adults. disney+ could lift the company s stock if the streaming service can challenge netflix and amazon.com inc (amzn.o) said haris anwar senior analyst at global financial platform investing.com.  disney s big beat on expectations is great news for the company which is getting ready to take on competitors in the video-streaming business who are taking away ad dollars and consumers  anwar said. in the just-ended quarter the theme parks division reported operating income of $829 million an 11 percent increase from a year earlier as guest attendance and spending at disney s u.s. locations rose during the busy summer months. profit at disney s movie studio more than doubled to $596 million thanks to hits such as  ant-man and the wasp  and  incredibles 2.  all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.   2018 reuters. all rights reserved.</div></div>