<div><div><h2>Jet Airways to cut flights on some routes after further losses</h2></div><div>bengaluru/new delhi (reuters) - debt-laden indian carrier jet airways ltd will cut flights on less profitable routes and add capacity to more lucrative markets as part of its effort to lower costs and boost revenues as it struggles to stay aloft. jet india s biggest full-service carrier posted its third straight quarterly loss on monday hurt by higher fuel expenses and a weaker rupee.  the airline has embarked on a comprehensive review ... the measures will include rationalisation of operations on select uneconomic routes  jet said in a statement adding that it will redeploy planes to more productive domestic and international sectors. the review is expected to help deliver a more efficient and economically viable network with a focus on profitability rather than market share jet which is part-owned by etihad airways said.  with our clearly defined focus on profitability we are in the midst of turning the ship around  jet s chief executive officer vinay dube said in the statement. a combination of rising oil prices high fuel taxes a weak rupee low fares and intense competition have slashed profits in the world s fastest-growing aviation market which is clocking 20 percent annual passenger growth. competitor indigo owned by interglobe aviation ltd last month pushed back plans to take ownership of some airbus a320neo planes to preserve cash after the company posted its first quarterly loss since 2015. jet posted a loss of 12.97 billion rupees ($178 million) for the quarter ended sept. 30 compared with a 496.3 million rupee profit a year earlier. fuel costs rose 58.6 percent to 24.2 billion rupees and the airline recorded a foreign exchange loss of 4.17 billion rupees up from 730 million rupees a year ago. revenue from operations climbed 9.5 percent. jet had a negative net worth as on sept. 30 with current liabilities exceeding current assets the airline said. the company said it is on track to meet its target of more than 20 billion rupees of cost cuts over two years having already made savings of 5 billion rupees in the first half of the current fiscal year. during the quarter it expanded a code share agreement with delta airlines etihad airways korean air malaysian airlines and bangkok airways to boost revenues. it said it continued to talk to financial stakeholders regarding its funding requirements and was working on selling assets and raising capital. earlier this month a media report said tata group was in talks to buy a majority stake in the airline and its frequent flyer programme jetprivilege. jet said the report was speculative.  we are confident that we will overcome our current challenges honour our commitments to our stakeholders and deliver a more strategic efficient and financially viable airline  jet s dube said. ($1 = 72.8600 indian rupees) all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.   2018 reuters. all rights reserved.</div></div>