<div><div><h2>Buffett's Berkshire doubles profit, repurchases $900 million stock in third quarter</h2></div><div>new york (reuters) - berkshire hathaway inc the conglomerate run by billionaire warren buffett on saturday said its quarterly operating profit doubled as its insurance business dodged hurricanes and benefited from lower taxes. the strong result gives buffett more cash to deploy even as the well-known bargain-hunting  value  investor has admitted struggling to find a place to put those earnings to work and resorted to buying back $928 million in his own company s stock in the latest quarter. operating profit in the third quarter doubled to $6.88 billion from $3.44 billion a year earlier and higher than the $6.11 billion expected by wall street according to ibes data from refinitiv. helping the company s insurance operations were lower estimated liabilities from property and casualty insurance in prior years and lower taxes. the year prior included major losses due to three u.s. hurricanes and an earthquake in mexico. insurance underwriting income was $441 million in the third quarter compared to a loss of $1.4 billion in the year-ago period.  this is absolutely one of the biggest quarterly earnings reports that has ever come out of a united states corporation  said bill smead chief executive of smead capital management a berkshire shareholder. berkshire said third-quarter net income rose more than 355 percent to $18.5 billion though that reflected a new accounting rule requiring it to report unrealized investment gains with earnings. buffett said the rule could lead to  wild and capricious  results and can mislead investors who should look at operating profit instead. berkshire s effective tax rate for the third quarter was 19.2 percent compared to 25.3 percent in the year-ago period following a reduction of the corporate tax rate that president donald trump signed into law in december. many u.s. companies  reported results have been skewed by the law s impact. insurance provides a stream of cash that berkshire can invest around the world. float or insurance premiums collected before claims are paid and which help fund berkshire s growth ended september at $118 billion. the company has $103.6 billion in cash short-term treasuries and other similar investments. buffett s last big acquisition was in january 2016 when berkshire paid $32.1 billion for aircraft parts maker precision castparts. in july the company announced relaxing a policy that had effectively prevented buffett from buying back the company s shares at current prices. berkshire is based in omaha nebraska and has more than 90 businesses in the insurance chemicals energy food and retail industrial parts railroad and other sectors. their day-to-day operations are overseen by greg abel and ajit jain each seen by investors as a possible successor to buffett 88 as chief executive. buffett and vice chairman charlie munger 94 handle major capital allocation decisions. berkshire s profits improved across each of its major business units. their results painted a picture of a u.s. economy that continues to grow but faces increased pressure from rising costs in part due to the trump administration s imposition of tariffs. in its building products and mclane s grocery and foodservice businesses for instance berkshire reported higher fuel and raw materials costs hurting profits. yet at burlington northern santa fe llc berkshire s rail business they were able to increase prices as more businesses ship by rail due to tight supply in the trucking market. berkshire warned that insurance losses due to hurricane michael are currently estimated in the $350 million to $550 million range for the fourth quarter. under-priced  berkshire s class a shares closed friday at $308411.01 per share delivering a total return of 3.6 percent for the year a bit ahead of the s&p 500 s 3.4 percent return. and the company s book value per class a share reflecting assets minus liabilities and a preferred measure of growth for buffett was $228712 on sept. 30 higher than $217677 one quarter ago. among his favorite investments buffett has gobbled up shares of apple inc. berkshire s stake in apple was worth $57.6 billion at the end of the most recent quarter up from $47.2 billion at the end of june. shares in apple fell nearly 7 percent on friday cutting its market value back to less than $1 trillion after it forecast softer-than-expected sales for the holiday quarter and fueled nerves over iphone sales by saying it would no longer release the figures. steven check president of check capital management inc a berkshire shareholder said berkshire s buybacks were a good sign.  it makes sense to me because the stock traded at higher valuations for most of the quarter than where the stock was bought at  said check.  it reconfirms what we ve known for a long time which is that the stock has been under-priced.  all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.   2018 reuters. all rights reserved.</div></div>