<div><div><h2>Britain's M&S warns more pain to come from latest reinvention</h2></div><div>london (reuters) - marks & spencer warned of an increasingly tough trading environment after disruption from the latest attempt to reinvent britain s most famous retailer dented first half sales and profit margins in both its food and clothing businesses. after over a decade of failed turnaround programmes the 134-year-old retailer is now targeting sustainable profitable growth in three to five years by shutting its less-successful stores. it warned on wednesday that sales were unlikely to improve any time soon.  trading conditions remain challenging and the headwinds from the growth of online competition and the march of the discounters remain strong in all our markets  it said. m&s s latest turnaround plan was launched last november two months after retail veteran archie norman joined as chairman to work alongside steve rowe who has been with the company for almost three decades and became chief executive in 2016.  the results are roughly what we expected them to be  norman told reporters.  i m not saying they re not important but they re not the most important thing to us. the most important thing is where we are in transforming this business.  like other established retailers m&s is trying to deal with the shift of clothing sales online along with unrelenting price competition from supermarkets and discounters. pressure on consumer spending a shift in expenditure towards experiences and away from clothing as well as unhelpful weather have also hampered revival efforts. first half results showed m&s s previously reliable food business was particularly weak with like-for-like sales down 2.9 percent below expectations of a 2 percent fall and gross margin down 25 basis points. rowe said new food boss stuart machin was tackling poor availability removing  pretty confusing deals and promotions  and lowering prices to better compete. for example prices on 100 christmas lines are being cut. underlying sales in the clothing business   long britons  first port of call for school uniforms interview suits and underwear   fell 1.1 percent while gross margin was down 20 basis points.  we re still buying too many (clothing) lines we re too broad and too shallow   the result of that is we ve not optimised the sales we could have had. we are letting customers down in terms of availability  said rowe who last year poached jill mcdonald from halfords to lead the business. shares in m&s which had fallen 4 percent this year slipped 0.9 percent to 299.5 pence at 1530 gmt. m&s s latest plan is a five-year programme of store closures and relocations to cut excess selling space in its clothing business moves to make the misfiring food business more competitive along with increased technology and supply chain investment. it is targeting 100 british store closures by 2022 as it strives to make at least a third of clothing and home sales online. it said it could close even more as it manages its property estate more actively. there have been 29 closures so far.  we re going bloody fast trust me  said rowe dismissing analysts  concerns that the speed and magnitude of m&s s plan will prove insufficient given how quickly and profoundly the uk retail market is changing.  there is no stone unturned in the business  he said. rowe dismissed any suggestion of tension between him and norman a hands-on chairman most famous for his revival of supermarket chain asda in the 1990s.  the relationship we ve got and the way we re working is first class  he said. m&s maintained its full-year outlook and interim dividend   after cost savings helped underlying profit rise 2 percent to 223.5 million pounds ($293 million) in the six months to sept. 29 ahead of analysts  average forecast of 203 million pounds. illustrating the extent of m&s  decline first-half profit in 2007 was 452 million pounds. m&s has reported two straight years of profit decline. analysts are forecasting a third when it posts 2018-19 results in may.  any path to recovery for m&s continues to look long and uncertain  said analysts at liberum.  on the food side we think investment in technology in stores is not going far enough. there are longer term pressures from the likes of amazon-go and the rise of takeaway platforms such as just eat and deliveroo  they said. ($1 = 0.7622 pounds) all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.   2018 reuters. all rights reserved.</div></div>