<div><div><h2>Arun Jaitley is being disingenuous in blaming RBI for the troubles of India s small and medium firms</h2></div><div>arun jaitley s attack on the reserve bank of india is disingenuous. the finance minister this week criticised the central bank for failing to check indiscriminate bank lending from 2008 to 2014 which has now ripened into a bad loan crisis. the attack was accompanied by the government invoking never-used powers under the reserve bank act to issue directions to the bank s governor urjit patel.the government exercising its powers under section 7 of the act has sent multiple letters to patel in recent weeks on issues ranging from liquidity for non-banking financial companies or nbfcs to capital requirement for weak banks and lending to small and medium enterprises the economic times reported.inside the central bank jaitley s sudden emphasis on smaller companies has been linked to the bharatiya janata party government s urgency to create jobs ahead of next year s election.  the government obviously has set its goals for the 2019 general election and it is not helping that small and medium-scale businesses are getting affected due to cash crunch in the banking sector  a reserve bank director told mumbai mirror. matters have been compounded the official said by the il&fs default which has made banks wary of lending to nbfcs a major source of credit for micro small and medium enterprises or msmes.these enterprises less mechanised than large companies account for most of india s manufacturing jobs. hence the finance minister s focus on them. and yet jaitley s attack is disingenuous for two reasons.msmes were in trouble before bjp came to powerfirst he oversimplifies why msmes are in trouble. their problems run far deeper than inadequate credit.from 2015 to 2017 scroll.in s ear to the ground project found msmes struggling in all six of the states it covered. industrial units across punjab   steel plants in mandi gobindgarh sporting goods manufacturers in jalandhar textile units in amritsar bicycle-makers in ludhiana   were shutting down or relocating to other states. in odisha industry was in doldrums as well. in the steel town of rourkela for instance as many as 40 out of 50 induction furnaces which make steel had shuttered since 2012. in tamil nadu businesses in coimbatore and tirupur complained of eroding competitiveness.the immediate factors varied from state to state from cluster to cluster. manufacturing units in punjab were struggling to compete with cheaper competition from other indian states and china. one reason was the high cost of doing business partly due to expensive electricity with its improbable link to the collapse of tax collection in the state and partly due to rent extraction by the previous akali dal government. in odisha irrational exuberance sparked by the global steel boom of the 2000s was one reason. another was the government s decision to export raw iron ore   instead of finished steel   during that period nixing the growth plans of the state s steelmakers. subsequently when the boom ended and china began exporting cheap steel indian steel companies prevailed upon the government to impose import tariffs. this however hurt a diverse array of small and medium enterprises making steel products for local and global markets. as the owner of a company that cut and shaped sheet metal for other industries in coimbatore explained  if i am a furniture shop making almirahs the product gets costlier.  engineering companies exporting finished products lost competitiveness as well.clearly problems with india s msme sector go far beyond inadequate credit.  msmes were severely damaged after bjp came to powerif the msme sector was tottering by the time arun jaitley became india s finance minister the next four and a half years felled it.first came demonetisation. on november 8 2016 the government suddenly announced that rs 500 and rs 1000 notes were no longer legal tender. this created an unprecedented cash shortage in the country. as economic activity dropped households and small businesses took a beating.less than a year later on july 1 2017 came another shock. the goods and services tax was introduced even before the msmes  turnovers had returned to pre-demonetisation levels. as scroll.in reported from gujarat at the time india s new tax regime for businesses favours formal economy players more than those in the informal economy   which is entirely made up of msmes. in south india high tax slabs pushed msmes in the automotive cluster of hosur into the red forcing them to take bank loans to pay taxes.while firms were still grappling with the new tax regime and figuring how to survive there came the cash crunch of december 2017. as scroll.in reported multiple reasons were at work including a collapse of the government s cash distribution protocols. this hammered small businesses yet again. that is people like jayaramaiah in bagalur a small town near hosur. in the weeks after demonetisation the volume of business at his hardware store had fallen to 20%. by july it had climbed to 80% when the goods and services tax again pushed it down to 40%-50%. by december jayaramaiah s business volume had recovered to 80%-85% of the pre-demonetisation levels when the cash squeeze came and reduced it to half of the november 2016 levels.jaitley glossed over all this while excoriating the reserve bank for letting msmes down.as rhetorical feints go this one does not fare particularly well.  the government is trying to blame the rbi for its failures  said the head of an msme industry association in tamil nadu who asked not to be identified.  they are trying to divert attention from moves like demonetisation. to revive these enterprises the government needed to take a far wider set of corrective measures. but in the last four and a half years nothing substantive has been done.</div></div>