<div><div><h2>Why IL&FS went bust and what it means for the health of India s financial system</h2></div><div>the crisis engulfing il&fs or the infrastructure leasing and financial services limited has led to two phrases entering common usage in india. i do not recall  too big to fail  or  shadow bank  being used to describe the country s financial affairs prior to the last two months.  too big to fail  became common parlance during the 2008 subprime crisis with america s treasury department and regulatory authorities including the federal reserve and the securities and exchange commission employing it to justify bailing out sundry private investment entities. the underlying concept is simple: an entity has vast exposure across the financial ecosystem and for whatever reason it s unable to meet its obligations; if it defaults its creditors will also be unable to meet their obligations leading to contagious defaults. so rescue the sick entity. such a rescue is morally ambiguous. it usually involves forgiving the entity s transgressions and places a financial burden on the rescuers which generally means taxpayers and shareholders of other institutions being dragged into the mess. it may be the pragmatic thing to do however if indeed the entity is too big to fail.  shadow bank  or shadow banking is often used to describe informal or semiformal lenders in mainland china. loosely a shadow bank is an entity that offers financial services similar to a bank but without being part of the regulated banking system. shadow banks labour under one great disadvantage: they have a higher cost of funding. but the lack of regulatory oversight allows them to take on more risks than banks. so they can cut corners and earn higher returns. they can also go bust more spectacularly. in india until about a month ago shadow banks were known as non-banking financial companies or nbfcs. there are thousands of them and they come in all shapes and sizes. some have specialised briefs and often a majority government shareholding. the power finance corporation for example has the government as the majority shareholder and does what its name suggests. ditto for the rural electrification corporation. there s hdfc the premier and pioneering housing mortgage lender and there are specialists in vehicle finance hypothecating both commercial and personal vehicles. there are retail lenders offering easy monthly instalment schemes for people buying fridges mobile phones laptops lawn mowers doing house improvements. there are nbfcs lending against gold and nbfcs offering personal loans for varied purposes. one key area of nbfc operations is infrastructure financing. there are inherent technical and historical reasons banks are wary of infrastructure. most bank funding is short to medium term consisting of demand deposits (savings accounts that can be liquidated anytime) and fixed deposits ranging from 30 days to about five years. banks have sector exposure and company exposure limits that is they cannot lend more than a certain percentage of their resources to one sector or to a single entity. infrastructure projects are long-gestation and high-risk. it takes years to lay a major road build a port terminal roll out a telecom network begin a mining operation or set up a power plant. they are capital-intensive requiring vast sums of money and the returns are zero until the project is up and running. there are political hurdles since land acquisition and regulatory clearances are always involved. the assets of an unfinished project   a half-built bridge or a stalled power plant   are often worthless so the lender can recover nothing by seizing assets. there are legal complications involved in seizing assets anyway. that is quite apart from the usual endemic contractual disputes. banks thus run high risks and face asset-liability mismatches in financing infrastructure since it requires them to borrow money for short durations then lend for long durations. indeed banks have already lost vast sums by funding infrastructure with power road construction and telecom sectors accounting for the maximum losses." data-embed-type="youtube" data-thumbnail="https://i.ytimg.com/vi/fjrmwx7d9fg/hqdefault.jpg" data-embed-id="fjrmwx7d9fg" data-embed-loaded="false" data-height="270" data-width="480"> </div></div>